Notice of 2024 Annual
Meeting and Proxy Statement
2023 Annual Report
Allstate exists to serve
customers, create opportunity
for our team, generate attractive
returns for investors, improve
communities, and make a
difference in the world.
Proxy
StatementOur Shared Purpose
As the good hands...
We empower customers with protection to help them
achieve their hopes and dreams.
We provide affordable, simple and connected
protection solutions.
We create opportunity for our team,
Our operating economic value for our
shareholders and improve Our behaviors
standards
communities.
Collaborate early and often
Focus on Customers by
to develop and implement
anticipating and exceeding
comprehensive solutions
service expectations at low
and share learnings.
costs.
Challenge Ideas to leverage
Be the Best at protecting
collective expertise, evaluate
customers, developing talent
multiple alternatives and
and running our businesses.
create the best path
Be Bold with original ideas forward.
using speed and conviction to
Provide Clarity for expected
beat the competition.
outcomes, decision authority
Earn Attractive Returns by and accountability.
providing customer value,
Provide Feedback that is
proactively accepting risk and
candid, actionable,
using analytics.
independent of
hierarchy and safe.
Our values
Integrity is non-negotiable.
Inclusive Diversity & Equity values and leverages unique
identities with equitable opportunity and rewards.
Collective Success is achieved through empathy and prioritizing
enterprise outcomes ahead of individuals.®
Allstate Shareholder Letter
Dear Fellow Shareholders,
To succeed in a tumultuous and rapidly changing world, businesses must operate with clarity of purpose,
strategic vision, precision and speed. As you know, 2023 was a year of severe weather, inflation and volatile
investment markets. Allstate performed well in this environment by helping customers recover from
catastrophes, improving auto insurance profitability, proactively managing investments and enhancing the
business for sustainable growth. Looking ahead, your company is well-positioned for long-term success.
2023 Results
Our Shared Purpose has guided Allstate for 17 years by focusing on Allstate was ranked in the top 250 best-managed
the customer. This creates value for shareholders, opportunity for
companies for the seventh consecutive year by
the Allstate team and improves communities.
The Wall Street Journal and Drucker Institute.
Living into Our Shared Purpose requires successfully balancing
competing priorities. Customers want affordable, simple and
connected protection, so that car accidents, hailstorms or broken
appliances do not sidetrack their lives. At the same time, Allstate
must provide good returns for shareholders, fulfilling opportunities
for employees and agents, and help communities thrive. Doing all of 2023 Operating Priorities
these things require trade-offs and balance.
In 2023, auto insurance rates were raised for the Allstate and Improve customer value
National General brands by 16.4% and 12.8%, respectively, to offset
• The Enterprise Net Promoter Score, which measures
increased losses caused by rapid inflation. This obviously did not
how likely customers are to recommend Allstate, finished
make products more affordable, but it was necessary for us to earn
below the prior year, reflecting substantial price increases
an adequate return for shareholders. To minimize the impact on
necessary to offset higher loss costs.
customers, operating expenses were reduced, requiring employees
and agents to adapt. Grow customer base
We successfully retained more customers than pricing models • Consolidated policies in force reached 194 million, a 2.8%
predicted, since price increases were explained by agents, and non- increase from prior year. Property-Liability policies in force
agent service was improved. In total, however, the customer net decreased by 2.0% compared to the prior year, as growth at
promoter score declined last year. National General was more than offset by a decrease at the
Total enterprise policies in force increased by 2.8% to 194 million Allstate brand. Protection Services policies in force increased
as growth in homeowners insurance and protection plans offset a 4.3%, primarily due to growth at Allstate Protection Plans.
decline in auto insurance policies. Auto insurance policies declined
Achieve target economic returns on capital
from 26.0 million to 25.3 million reflecting rate increases. National
General auto policies rose by 13.3% in 2023 due to increased volume • Returns were below target, reflecting property-liability
from independent agencies. Homeowners insurance policies were combined ratio of 104.5. The auto insurance profit
up by 1.1% to 7.3 million despite rate increases of over 12% last improvement plan improved results throughout the
year, highlighting the strength of Allstate’s competitive position. year but an 81% increase in catastrophe losses led to an
Protection plans grew by 4.7% as international expansion offset underwriting loss.
slower growth through North American retailers.
Proactively manage investments
Revenues reached $57.1 billion, 11.1% higher than 2022, reflecting
significant increases in average auto and home insurance premiums. • Net investment income of $2.5 billion in 2023 was
Auto insurance profitability improved throughout the year which $75 million higher than prior year as higher market-
reduced the underwriting loss by $1.9 billion from 2022. Catastrophe based investment income was partially offset by lower
losses, however, were 81% higher ($2.5 billion), resulting in an performance-based results. Total return on the $66.7 billion
underwriting loss for 2023. Investment performance was strong with (as of 12/31/23) investment portfolio was 6.7% in 2023.
a 6.7% total return and $2.5 billion of net investment income. Health Proactive portfolio management repositioned the fixed
& Benefits and Protection Services businesses generated $348 income portfolio into longer duration and higher-yielding
million of Adjusted Net Income, which reduced the overall net loss assets that increased income.
to $316 million for the year. Adjusted Net Income*, which excludes Execute Transformative Growth
some non-operating items, was $251 million for the year and the
return on adjusted equity* of 1.5% was below our target of 14-17%. • Allstate made substantial progress in advancing
Transformative Growth initiatives in 2023. National General is
• Revenue: $57.1 billion (+11.1%)
building a strong competitive position in independent agent
• Policies in Force: 194 million (+2.8%)
distribution. Protection Plans is expanding outside the U.S.
• Net loss: $316 million
• Adjusted net income*: $251 million
* For definitions of these terms, please see the definitions of non-GAAP
measures on pages 119-121 of our 2024 Proxy Statement.
4 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Allstate Shareholder Letter
Strategic Direction Allstate is well-positioned for long-term growth with
a broad range of protection offerings, a great brand and
Allstate’s strategy is to grow property-liability insurance market
extensive distribution.
share and expand protection provided to customers.
• Allstate empowers customers with protection to help them
achieve their hopes and dream. This includes insurance for
autos, homes, boats and personal property, protection plans
for electronics, appliances and furniture, identity protection,
Increase roadside service and car warranties.
Personal
• The Allstate brand is widely recognized and trusted.
Property-
This is a significant asset in the highly competitive auto
Liability and home insurance market and drives growth in other
Market protection products.
Share
• Allstate has extensive distribution partnerships so consumers
can become Allstate customers almost everywhere. Insurance
products are sold through 26,000 licensed professionals in
Leveraging
Allstate brand, Allstate agencies, at call centers, over the web, and from tens
customer base of thousands of independent agents. Protection plans are
and capabilities embedded into the flow of commerce in many of the largest
U.S. retailers and expanding internationally. Employee benefit
brokers and car dealers also offer Allstate products.
Successful strategies must also incorporate discontinuous
Expand changes in the external environment. Four drivers of change
Protection (artificial intelligence, climate change, mobility and connectivity)
Services
will impact customers, shareholders and employees. Investments
are being made in each of these areas to ensure Allstate has the
capabilities to adapt to create the future, not just react to trends.
Innovation on the move – The Allstate mobile app
Progress was made in implementing the Transformative Growth was expanded to enable customers to find lower
strategy to increase auto and home insurance market share. gas prices, check the weather and reserve parking.
Customers use the app 2.5 million times per week!
Customer value will be increased with lower prices, funded through
expense reductions and sophisticated pricing, and new Affordable,
Simple, Connected protection products. A new Allstate brand
auto insurance offering is now available in seven states and will be
Human Capital
expanded in 2024.
Allstate has over 53,000 employees located around the world that
Access to local Allstate agents is important to customer value
live into Our Shared Purpose. Eight-four percent of U.S. employees
and this strength will be enhanced with new products, advanced
have a favorable view of engagement at Allstate. Ninety percent of
technology and greater centralized service. Allstate agents
U.S. employees feel connected to their immediate team members.
embraced a focus on increasing new business, and productivity
Turnover dropped dramatically in 2023.
increased, aside from the three growth-restricted states where we
are addressing profitability. Customer access was also expanded
through independent agents with a broader set of National
General products.
Allstate is a purpose driven company that is
Progress has also been made in improving sophistication of powered by purpose driven people.
customer acquisition, building out a new technology ecosystem
and organizational transformation.
Expanding the protection provided to customers will also create High engagement results reflect being on a path to the future,
additional shareholder value. Protection Services revenues versus trying to return to the past. A distributed work model is a
increased by 9% over the prior year with increases in protection core part of the employee value proposition.
plans, identity protection, car warranties and roadside services. A
sale of the Health & Benefits businesses is being pursued since
aligning this business with a set of complementary businesses will
create additional value.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 52024 Proxy Statement
Allstate Shareholder Letter
It requires providing leaders with guidance and tools to provide Climate Engagement
a sense of belonging. As a result, resources have been increased
Allstate has been engaged on climate issues for over 25 years since
and “pods” for in-person collaboration are being tested as
severe weather impacts customers, shareholders and communities.
gathering places.
This focus has been on the realities of recovery, remediation and
Creating a transformative growth enterprise requires culture long-term resiliency, not the genesis of climate change.
change, keeping the good and having the courage to stop things
Allstate successfully adapted to increased severe weather
that get in the way. To focus cultural change, a definition was
starting in 2008, following a series of large hurricanes and
needed, and since the dictionaries were of little help, we created
weather-related losses. Homeowners insurance coverage was
our own.
changed so that customers with newer weather resistant roofs
had lower premiums. Pricing fairness was also improved by using
sophisticated analytics for each type of loss. To maintain financial
Culture is a self-sustaining system of shared values, strength in the face of extremely large catastrophes, we became
principles and priorities that shape beliefs, drive one of the largest purchasers of reinsurance and lowered exposure
behaviors and influence decision-making within in areas where regulators would not approve adequate prices.
an organization. Claims remediation was improved by using technology to rapidly
respond when disaster strikes. Today, Allstate insures 7.3 million
homes and helps approximately 600,000 additional customers get
homeowners insurance in markets where the company limits risk
The good news is that most of this is covered in Our Shared levels. In addition to protecting customers from climate change,
Purpose. The values of integrity and ethics are critical to we have adequately compensated shareholders with underwriting
maintaining Allstate as a trusted source of protection. Principles profits over the last 3, 5 and 10 years.
and priorities are reflected in our strategies and behaviors. There is
a clear focus on what cultural elements need to be maintained and Climate change also impacts operating practices and investment
those where change will improve performance. opportunities. Allstate has committed to achieve net zero Scope 1
and 2 emissions by 2030. A commitment on Scope 3 emissions will
be made in 2025 since this largely represents indirect emissions
through the investment portfolio and the measurement system
Allstate was recognized as one of the world’s is not fully developed. The transition to a lower carbon economy
most ethical companies by Ethisphere for a will also create attractive return opportunities in the investment
10th consecutive year. portfolio. Investment capabilities are being built, measurement
expanded and investments made to benefit in this future.
While Allstate has adapted to climate change and has a viable
Inclusive Diversity and Equity is core to success and while more business protecting homeowners, the overall industry has
progress is needed, Allstate continues to lead. In the U.S., 56% of generated losses of $23 billion in the last 5 years. As a result,
the management team and 48% of the company’s officers identify competitors are taking action to reduce their losses and
as female or BIPOC, both of which increased from the prior year. consequently homeowners in some markets are not able to get
private insurance. Some state-owned insurance pools have moved
from providers of last resort to significant insurers. One state’s pool
is the 10th largest insurer in the country. This is not a sustainable
Allstate was included in DiversityInc’s Top 50
or financially sound situation. Allstate is an advocate for creating
Companies for Diversity
solutions through private and public collaboration. The stakes
are significant.
America’s financial well-being is at risk. Severe weather
Financial Strength threatens not only lives but financial solvency, retirements and the
American dream. U.S. households have $45 trillion invested in their
Allstate successfully manages capital and has the financial
homes, which represents about half of the net worth for half of
strength to navigate challenging operating environments, fund
households. Insurance is needed for economic stability but the risk
growth and reward shareholders. Proactive enterprise risk and
of loss is too large for private insurers alone.
return management practices kept Allstate in a well-capitalized
position in 2023, despite underwriting losses and a significant Catastrophe losses are increasing. A warming world creates
share repurchase program. Statutory capital and assets at the more severe weather catastrophes. This is not just a California or
holding company were $18.0 billion at the end of 2023, which was Florida problem since catastrophes (hurricanes, wildfires, flooding,
well in excess of insurance regulatory requirements and exceeded tornadoes, hailstorms, straight line winds, atmospheric rivers, and
the base level set by the company’s models. Sophisticated risk earthquakes) put virtually every community at risk.
and return management led to a reduction in the public equity
portfolio in 2022 and increased duration of the bond portfolio in Private insurers can protect people but regulations must
2023, which reduced required capital and increased prospective reflect economic realities. Private insurers exist to facilitate
income. $1.3 billion of capital was returned to shareholders in 2023, recovery, spread the costs of disasters amongst policyholders
although the share repurchase program was stopped in July. Over in a fair way and risk their capital. When regulators don’t allow
the last five years, $13.7 billion has been returned to shareholders insurance prices to reflect local risks this is unfair for customers
which reduced the number of shares outstanding by 25%. who choose to live in lower risk areas. It also inhibits insurers from
risking their capital which leads to a lack of insurance options. A
proper price educates consumers on risks and supports increased
resiliency. Insurers must be allowed to properly price risk and
reflect the realities of a warmer world.
6 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Allstate Shareholder Letter
A sustainable solution also requires governments to Creating a sustainable system that protects America is
provide households protection for extremely large low complicated and will require collaboration and compromise.
frequency events. Allstate will stay actively engaged at the state and federal
level to find a better path forward for customers, shareholders,
and communities.
Natural disasters are hitting Americans and the
Sustainability
U.S. economy harder and more frequently.
Corporate sustainability requires balance and strong governance.
The Facts Allstate uses a Societal Engagement Framework to provide clarity
and structure to determine where to lead on societal issues.
• 170 storms of $1 billion or greater over last 10 years, worth
$1.2T of economic loss. The Allstate Foundation empowers people and communities
• The frequency of billion-dollar catastrophe events has so they can thrive by empowering youth to serve and improve
increased by a factor of 2x over the last 10 years. communities, working to close the racial wage gap, and
disrupting the cycle of relationship abuse. Over the past three
years, The Allstate Foundation has distributed nearly $112 million
to nonprofits.
Shareholders benefit from strong governance led by a board of
highly successful directors with a diversity of talent, backgrounds
and capabilities. The independent directors summarize their
accomplishments in an annual letter on pages 8-9 of this
proxy statement.
Allstate is positioned for success with Our Shared Purpose guiding
the way and a world-class leadership team that uses the head,
heart and courage to create the future.
• Hurricanes impact all coastal states from TX to ME, and in It is an honor to have your support to continue building this
2023 even CA and AZ. iconic company!
• Earthquakes expose homes in CA, WA, OR, and states
exposed to the New Madrid fault (AR, IL, KY, MO, OH).
• Tornado/Hail losses exist in states like CO, OK, TX and NE, but
with exposure in all states east of the Rockies.
Tom Wilson
• Wildfire exposure exists in CA and the western US states.
Chair, President
• All states have exposure to flooding.
and CEO
• Large catastrophes create losses beyond the capacity of private
insurers. A Category 5 hurricane in Miami-Dade County, Florida,
could result in over $150 billion of losses, and a repeat of the
1938 “Long Island Express” hurricane in New York could cost
$100 billion. The top 10 U.S. insurance carriers have $300 billion
of total capital for all risks, so fully covering these losses is
not prudent.
• State based entities have been created in some states to
address this reality, such as Florida, California and Texas, but
these entities do not have sufficient financial resources. Other
states, such as New York, New Jersey and Georgia have large
exposures and plans need to be created.
• The federal government also needs to help protect households
from severe weather since large natural disasters are beyond
the financial capacity of states. Current federal support could
be more effective and equitable. From 2005 through 2019,
the federal government spent almost half a trillion dollars on
recovery after catastrophes through at least 17 departments.
The National Flood Insurance Program runs consistent losses
and owes the U.S. Treasury $20.5 billion. Federal plans such as
the Terrorism Reinsurance Act protect commercial interests but
leave homeowners unprotected. Imagine a terrorist attack in
a city where hotel and office building owners get government
insurance payments but individual homeowners get nothing.
The federal government’s approach must be updated for the
realities of more severe weather.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 7®
Letter from Independent Directors
April 1, 2024
Fellow Stockholders,
In 2023, we continued to enhance the Board’s engagement and oversight to fulfill our fiduciary obligations in
what was a challenging operating environment. Allstate executed on improving profitability while implementing
strategic initiatives to create long-term shareholder value. This was achieved despite headwinds related to
market volatility, inflation pressure and elevated catastrophe losses. The Board focused on profit improvement,
operating performance, risk oversight, governance, long-term strategy and environmental and social impact.
The foundation of good governance is transparency and accountability, and this letter highlights the Board’s
performance during the past year.
Strategy and Business Risk Oversight and Board Composition
The Board is fully engaged in the oversight of Allstate’s operating The Board oversees both the “here and now” risks and longer-term
results and long-term strategic priorities. In 2023, the Board challenges and opportunities. This includes thorough reviews of
effectively oversaw Allstate’s strategy to increase shareholder risks presented by inflation, investment volatility, capital constraints,
value by improving profitability, proactively managing investments changing driving behaviors, cybersecurity, regulation, climate
and implementing Transformative Growth initiatives. change and severe weather. The Board expanded its oversight
of technology, data analytics and artificial intelligence (“AI”) and
• Profitability improved as auto and home insurance prices were
reviewed a digital analytical ecosystem to improve direct sales,
increased with revenues growing 11.1% to $57 billion, compared
claims effectiveness and efficiency, and enhance investment
to the prior year. Profitability was also improved through expense
processes. The Board evaluated operating and compensation
reductions and restricted new auto insurance growth in profit-
plans from a risk and return perspective. Additionally, the Board
challenged areas.
reviewed and assessed the company’s operating performance and
• Our investment portfolio had strong returns as duration was capital allocation practices using an outside-in perspective. We once
shortened in 2021 and extended in 2023. again utilized independent external resources to supplement our
• Transformative Growth initiatives continued to be executed capabilities for compensation, cybersecurity and pay equity topics.
to create additional shareholder value by increasing auto and
We focused on ensuring Allstate has an optimal Board structure
home insurance market share once margins improved.
and composition to effectively oversee the business. The Board is
• Divestiture of the Health and Benefits businesses is being a diverse group of highly successful business leaders with a wide
pursued to maximize their long-term value by leveraging the array of strategic and business skills. When adding a new director
capabilities of similar companies. or changing composition of Board committees, we ensure there
• Our annual three-day strategy session focused on four “drivers is a diverse mix of skills, experiences and perspectives. To that
of change” critical to Allstate’s long-term business success: end, we added Maria Morris to the Board, who brings insurance
artificial intelligence, climate change, personal transportation industry experience as well as extensive strategic, operational and
and customer connectivity. technology expertise.
Overall financial results were below long-term targets but
Succession Planning
improved throughout the year. 2023 had a net loss of $316 million
and adjusted net income* of $251 million, reflecting elevated The Board recognizes that continuous and systematic reviews
catastrophe losses and an underwriting loss in auto insurance. of succession planning is critical to success. We reviewed senior
In July 2023, in light of the net loss, we suspended repurchasing leadership and CEO succession from both an enterprise and
shares with $4.5 billion of the $5 billion program completed. individual perspective over multiple meetings during 2023 and
Allstate increased the common dividend by 3.4% in February 2024, participated in succession scenario planning exercises. The Board
reflecting an ongoing commitment to shareholder return. also has consistent and direct exposure to senior leaders throughout
the year and regularly interacts with high performing leaders. We are
continually impressed with the “bench strength” and believe that the
company is well-positioned for leadership succession.
* Measures used in this proxy statement that are not based on generally accepted accounting principles (“non-GAAP”) are denoted with an asterisk (*). For
definitions of these terms, please see the definitions of non-GAAP measures on pages 119-121 of our 2024 Proxy Statement.
8 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Letter from Independent Directors
Human Capital returns by considering the transition to a lower carbon economy.
We expanded the Task Force on Climate-related Financial
As a service organization, Allstate’s strong human capital
Disclosures (“TCFD”) report to reflect work done on emissions
management and inclusive diversity and equity (“IDE”) practices are
targets and issued our third Sustainability Accounting Standards
essential to continued success. Important human capital initiatives
Board (“SASB”) report. A materiality assessment informed the
were reviewed with the Board and advanced during the year:
determination of focus areas under the Societal Engagement
• Organizational health, including progress against Future of Framework. The Allstate Foundation invested in its pillars of youth
Work Initiative to address culture, distributed work efficiencies, empowerment, victims of relationship abuse and racial equity.
employee retention and development
Engagement with Allstate’s shareholders is an essential part
• An IDE plan that encompasses work environment, employee
of the Board’s decision-making process. In 2023, the Chair,
representation and procurement relationships. The Board also
independent Lead Director and other senior management met
participated in a facilitated discussion of diversity in the board
with investors representing more than 45% of outstanding shares.
room. IDE metrics were shifted to the long-term incentive plan to
We discussed matters including company strategy, operating
demonstrate alignment with Allstate’s long-term strategic priorities
performance, governance and sustainability initiatives. Feedback
• Organizational transformation strategy, deploying talent, from these meetings was shared with the Board and action items
advancing skills-led talent management, and leveraging were developed, many of which have been communicated in this
technology to support Transformative Growth Proxy Statement.
• Compensation plans are linked to a broad set of objective
performance measures. Annual incentive plans are designed to
reward performance on key strategic, operational, and financial
measures. Long-term incentive plans reflect total shareholder Allstate continues to be recognized for its best
return relative to peers, performance net income return on
practice disclosures. The 2023 proxy statement
equity, and performance on IDE progress
was awarded “Best Proxy Statement” by the
Transparency Awards. The company’s proxy
statement and shareholder engagement program
were also recognized by Governance Intelligence,
To support its commitment to equity and transparency,
formerly Corporate Secretary.
Allstate issued its third EEO-1 Report and once again
completed an external pay equity analysis.
Your view is important to us and we value your continued
investment and support of Allstate. The company is positioned
Climate and Sustainability for sustainable value creation given our transformation strategy,
strong leadership team, and unwavering commitment to Our
At Allstate, we take meaningful action to create a more sustainable
Shared Purpose of serving customers, providing opportunity to
future since increasing severe weather impacts customers,
employees and agents, delivering attractive returns to investors
investors and communities. Allstate has focused on the impacts
and improving communities. We pledge to ensure that Allstate
of climate change for over 25 years, including advocating for
fulfills its obligations to you, its customers, and the broader
catastrophe disaster preparation and response, risk sharing
community. Thank you for trusting us to oversee the long-term
mechanisms, and enhanced building standards. In 2023, progress
sustainability of Allstate.
was made on the strategy to generate attractive investment
Donald E. Brown Siddharth N. (Bobby) Mehta Gregg M. Sherrill
Maria Morris
Kermit R. Crawford Judith A. Sprieser
Richard T. Hume Jacques P. Perold Perry M. Traquina
Margaret M. Keane Andrea Redmond Monica Turner
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 9Notice of 2024 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders
Notice of 2024
Annual Meeting of Shareholders
Items of Business Date and Time
May 14, 2024, at 11:00 a.m. Central time.
BOARD RECOMMENDATION Admission to the webcast begins at 10:30 a.m.
Virtual (Online Only)
01 Election of FOR each
www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/ALL2024
13 directors nominee
See pages 28-65 Record Date
Holders of Allstate common stock at the close
of business on March 18, 2024. Each share of
common stock is entitled to one vote for each
02 Say-on-pay: FOR
director candidate and one vote for each of the
advisory vote on the See pages 66-106
other proposals.
compensation of the
named executives Participation
Shareholders who wish to participate in the
meeting should review page 11.
03 Ratification of FOR
appointment of See pages 107-110 Date of Mailing
Deloitte & Touche On or about April 1, 2024, these proxy materials
and annual report are being mailed or made
LLP as Allstate’s
available to shareholders and to participants in the
independent
Allstate 401(k) Savings Plan.
registered public
accountant for 2024 How to Vote in Advance
Your vote is important. Please vote as soon as possible
04 Shareholder AGAINST
by one of the methods shown below. Make sure to have
Proposal to have See pages 111-112 your proxy card, voting instruction form, or notice of
an Independent Internet availability in hand and follow the instructions.
You may also vote during the annual meeting by visiting
Board Chairman
www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/ALL2024, entering
your control number, and following the instructions.
In addition, any other business properly presented may be
acted upon at the meeting. By Telephone
In the U.S. or Canada, you can vote your shares
By Order of the Board,
toll-free by calling 1-800-690-6903.
By Mail
You can vote by mail by marking, dating and
Christine DeBiase
signing your proxy card or voting instruction form
Secretary and returning it in the postage-paid envelope.
April 1, 2024
By Internet
You can vote your shares online at proxyvote.com.
Important Notice Regarding the Availability of
Proxy Materials for the Shareholder Meeting to Be By Tablet or Smartphone
Held on May 14, 2024 You can vote your shares with your tablet or
The Notice of 2024 Annual Meeting, Proxy Statement smartphone by scanning the QR code.
and 2023 Annual Report and the means to vote by
Internet are available at proxyvote.com.
10 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.comParticipating in Our Annual Meeting
The 2024 annual Who can participate in the Virtual Annual Meeting?
meeting will be held in If you plan to participate in the annual meeting, you must be a holder of Allstate shares
a virtual meeting format as of the record date of March 18, 2024, or hold a legal proxy for the meeting provided
since it provides greater by your bank, broker, or nominee. To be admitted to the annual meeting webcast
access and participation at www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/ALL2024, you must enter the 16-digit
opportunities control number found on your proxy card, voting instruction form or notice of
for shareholders. internet availability. You may log into the meeting platform beginning at 10:30 a.m.
Central time on May 14, 2024. The meeting will begin promptly at 11:00 a.m. Central
time on May 14, 2024. The virtual meeting platform is fully supported across browsers
Virtual Meetings (Firefox, Chrome, Microsoft Edge and Safari) and devices (desktops, laptops, tablets
and cell phones) running the most updated version of applicable software. Participants
Increase
should ensure they have a strong WiFi connection wherever they intend to participate
Participation
in the meeting. Participants should also give themselves plenty of time to log in and
ensure that they can hear streaming audio prior to the start of the meeting.
SHAREHOLDER
ATTENDANCE
How can I vote at the meeting?
In-Person Virtual
You may vote during the annual meeting by following the instructions available on the
Meeting Meeting
meeting website during the meeting. Whether or not you participate in the annual
87 meeting, we encourage you to vote and submit your proxy in advance of the
77
74
70 meeting by one of the methods described in these proxy materials.
How can I ask a question at the meeting?
34
This year’s shareholders’ question and answer session will include questions submitted
in advance of, and questions submitted live during the annual meeting. You may
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 submit a question in advance of the meeting beginning at 8:30 a.m. Central time on
May 9, 2024, and until 11:59 p.m. Central time on May 13, 2024, at www.proxyvote.com
SHAREHOLDER after logging in with your 16-digit control number. Once past the login screen,
QUESTIONS
click on “Question for Management,” typing your question and clicking “Submit.”
ANSWERED DURING
THE MEETING Alternatively, questions may be submitted during the annual meeting through www.
virtualshareholdermeeting.com/ALL2024, by typing your question into the “Ask a
In-Person Virtual
Question” field and clicking “Submit.” We will try to answer as many questions as time
Meeting Meeting
permits. We reserve the right to edit profanity or other inappropriate language and
13 to exclude questions regarding topics that are not pertinent to meeting matters or
company business. If we receive substantially similar questions, we may group such
10
questions together and provide a single response to avoid repetition. Any questions
7 pertinent to meeting matters that cannot be answered during the meeting due to time
34 5 constraints will be posted online at www.allstateinvestors.com.
1
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Who do I contact about technical difficulties?
If you encounter difficulties accessing the meeting during the meeting time, please call
the technical support number at (844) 986-0822. The technical support number will
also be posted on the meeting website.
Will a replay of the meeting be available?
Following completion of the meeting, a webcast replay will be posted online to our
Investor Relations website at www.allstateinvestors.com for one year.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 11Table of Contents
4 Allstate Shareholder Letter
8 Letter from Independent Directors Where to Find
10 Notice of 2024 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
11 Participating in Our Annual Meeting
41 Board L eadership
13 About Allstate
14 Strategic Priorities
18 Sustainability at Allstate
17 Financial Highlights
24 Voting Roadmap
109 Auditor Fees
28 Corporate Governance
58 Board Evaluation Process
% Proposal 01 Election of 13 Directors 52 Succession Planning
29 Our Director Nominees 41 Board Structure 87 Clawback Policy
29 The Director Nominees at a Glance 48 Engaged Oversight 57 Risk Areas Overseen by
30 Director Biographies 58 Board Effectiveness
Board Committees
37 Board and Nominee 61 Board Accountability
Independence Determinations 63 More Information 43 Director Attendance
38 Board Governance 64 Director Compensation 29 Director Skills and
38 Effective Board Governance at Allstate
Experience Matrix
39 Board Composition
87 Equity Ownership
66 Executive Compensation Requirements
% Proposal 02 Say-on-Pay: Advisory Vote on the 19 Societal Engagement
Compensation of the Named Executives Framework
40 Board Nomination Process
67 Compensation Discussion and Analysis 97 Non-Qualified Deferred
73 Peer Group
88 Compensation Committee Report Compensation at Fiscal
89 Summary Compensation Table Year-end 2023 61 Shareholder Engagement
91 Grants of Plan-Based Awards 98 Potential Payments as a Result 63 Communication with
at Fiscal Year-end 2023 of Termination or Change
93 Outstanding Equity Awards in Control (“CIC”) the Board
at Fiscal Year-end 2023 100 Estimate of Potential Payments 68 Alignment of Pay
94 Option Exercises and Upon Termination with Performance
Stock Vested During 2023 101 Performance Measures for 2023
94 Retirement Benefits 104 CEO Pay Ratio 18-23 Sustainability Highlights
105 Pay Versus Performance Table 64 Director Stock
107 Audit Committee Matters Ownership Guidelines
% Proposal 03 Ratification of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the 30-36 Director Biographies
Independent Registered Public Accountant for 2024 53 Cybersecurity
110 Audit Committee Report
111 Shareholder Proposal
Proposal 04 Independent Board Chairman
Explore Allstate
113 Stock Ownership Information
113 Security Ownership of Directors 114 Security Ownership of Certain Get a quote in the blink
and Executive Officers Beneficial Owners
of an eye
https://www.allstate.com
115 Other Information
115 Proxy and Voting Information 122 Appendix B – Categorical
119 Appendix A – Definitions of Standards of Independence
Non-GAAP Measures 123 Appendix C – Executive Officers
124 Helpful Links and Resources
124 About Allstate 124 Sustainability
124 Governance
12 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.comAbout Allstate
Our Businesses Allstate at a
Glance
Allstate is one of the nation’s largest consumer protection providers
with 194 million policies in force protecting cars, homes, motorcycles,
health, disability, lives, personal devices and identities. Its products are 194
million policies in force
sold through Allstate agents, independent agents, call centers, online,
major retailers and voluntary benefits brokers. The company harnesses
53,400
employees
the talent of approximately 53,400 employees, 9,100 exclusive Allstate
agents and agent support staff, 20,200 licensed sales professionals
9,100
exclusive Allstate
and 50,900 independent agents.
agents and agent support staff
What We Do 50,900
independent agents
20,200
Allstate empowers licensed
customers with sales professionals
Increase
protection to help
Personal
them achieve their
Property-
hopes and dreams. We
Liability
do this by leveraging
Market Allstate is included on
innovative, industry-
Share The Wall Street Journal/
leading technology to
Drucker Institute list of
provide customers with
the nation’s 250 best
affordable, simple and
managed companies.
connected solutions. Leveraging
Allstate brand,
We offer a wide range of
customer base
protection products and
and capabilities In 2023, The Allstate
services for customers,
Foundation, along with
automobiles, homes,
Allstate and its employees
personal property, health,
and agents, collectively
income and identities.
donated nearly $50 million
Expand
to help local communities in
Protection
support of more than
Services
6,900 nonprofits.
Once again, Allstate was
included in DiversityInc’s
Top 50 Companies
for Diversity.
In 2023, our employees
and agents reported over
186,000 volunteer hours.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 13Strategic Priorities
2024 Proxy Statement
About Allstate
Our Strategy
Allstate’s Strategy to Increase Shareholder Value
Allstate’s strategy is focused on increasing personal property-liability market share and expanding protection offerings by
leveraging the Allstate brand, customer base and capabilities. We offer consumers a broad suite of protection solutions and
a competitive value proposition across multiple distribution channels. We are expanding protection services businesses by
utilizing enterprise capabilities and resources such as the Allstate brand, distribution network, analytics, claims, investment
expertise, talent and capital. Innovative growth platforms (such as telematics and identity protection) and broad
distribution platforms further enhance our customer value proposition.
Our Strategic Priorities
01 Executing comprehensive plan to improve profitability
Auto insurance margins need to be returned to targeted levels, amongst the best in the industry. Allstate brand auto
insurance rate increases of 16.4% were implemented in 2023, and rate increases will continue to be implemented to
keep pace with loss trends and improve margins in states where we have not yet achieved rate adequacy. Allstate also
implemented stricter auto new business underwriting requirements and reduced the adjusted expense ratio* and lowered
advertising spend. We also modified claims practices to manage loss costs and innovation and analytics were leveraged to
drive accuracy and operational efficiency.
02 Generating profitable growth in Protection Services and pursuing divestiture of Health
and Benefits
Revenue from Protection Services was 9.2% higher than the prior year, generating approximately 4.6% of total Allstate
revenues in 2023. Divestiture of Health and Benefits will maximize value by aligning with another company with a broader
set of complementary businesses and product offerings.
03 Proactively managing the investment portfolio
Higher investment yields benefitted Net Investment Income. The fixed income portfolio duration was increased in 2023
as fixed income reinvestment yields remained above prior year levels. The higher fixed income duration and defensive
positioning in the equity portfolio mitigate recession risk in the portfolio.
04 Transformative Growth
Our Transformative Growth strategy is about creating a business model, capabilities and culture that continually transform
to better serve customers. This will be achieved by providing affordable, simple and connected protection through
multiple distribution channels. The ultimate objective is to enhance customer value to drive growth in all businesses.
We made significant progress across all five components of this strategy: Improve Customer Value, Expand Customer
Access, Increase Sophistication and Investment in Customer Acquisition, Deploy New Technology Ecosystems and Drive
Organizational Transformation.
* For definitions of these terms, please see the definitions of non-GAAP measures on pages 119-121 of our 2024 Proxy Statement.
14 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
About Allstate
Transformative Growth Progress – Property-Liability Businesses
A. Improve Customer Value
Improved the competitive prices of products through lower costs, increased pricing sophistication and telematics.
Expanded the use of telematics and broadened the benefits of being connected with the Allstate Mobile app. Provided
new protection solutions with simpler consumer-friendly experiences.
B. Expand Customer Access
Transformed Allstate agent sales system to enable more growth at a lower cost, while expanding distribution capacity.
Increased direct channel distribution through improved online experience and data-driven insights to enhance call center
sales. Grew National General by leveraging the Allstate brand capabilities and data to expand product offerings and fully
utilize our independent agency relationships.
C. Increase Sophistication and Investment in Customer Acquisition
Improved the effectiveness of customer acquisition by expanding lead management, building data capabilities and utilizing
household insights.
D. Deploy New Technology Ecosystem
Deployed a new technology ecosystem to deliver affordable, simple and connected experiences and products at a lower
cost, enabling the retirement of legacy systems
E. Drive Organizational Transformation
Delivered an exceptional customer experience enabled by enhanced human resource tools and technology, an engaged
and high performing global workforce, and organizational designs for efficiency.
Digital
Expense
technology
reductions
ecosystems
Increase
sophistication Personal
Low prices/
and investment Property-Liability
attractive returns
in customer Flywheel of Growth
acquisition
Simple and
Enhanced and connected
expanded protection
distribution solutions
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 152024 Proxy Statement
About Allstate
2023 Operating Priorities Support Our Strategy
Link to Executive
Compensation
01 Improve Customer Value
Allstate’s executive
Enterprise Net Promoter Score, which measures how likely customers are to recommend
compensation program
Allstate, finished below the prior year, reflecting the impact of substantial auto and home
is designed to ensure
insurance price increases necessary to offset higher loss costs. that the interests of
our executives are
aligned with those of
our shareholders. We
02 Grow Customer Base establish a strong nexus
between performance
Consolidated policies in force reached 194 million, a 2.8% increase from prior year.
measures and strategic
Property-Liability policies in force decreased by 2.0% compared to the prior year, as objectives, which are
continued growth at National General was more than offset by decreases at the Allstate also linked to operating
brand. Protection Services policies in force increased 4.3%, primarily due to growth at priorities designed
to create long-term
Allstate Protection Plans.
shareholder value.
03 Achieve Target Economic Returns On Capital
The Property-Liability combined ratio of 104.5 for the full year decreased compared to the
prior year primarily reflecting increased premiums earned, partially offsetting continued
elevated loss costs. A comprehensive profitability plan is being executed.
04 Proactively Manage Investments
Net investment income of $2.48 billion in 2023 was $75 million higher than prior year as
higher market-based investment income was partially offset by lower performance-based
results. Total return on the $66.68 billion (as of 12/31/23) investment portfolio was 6.7% in
2023. Proactive portfolio management repositioned the fixed income portfolio into longer
duration and higher-yielding assets that increased income.
05 Execute Transformative Growth
Allstate made substantial progress in advancing Transformative Growth in 2023, including
continued cost reductions, deployment of a new property-liability technology platform
and a new Affordable, Simple, Connected auto insurance offering in seven states. National
General is building a strong competitive position in independent agent distribution. A
digital enterprise is being built by expanding utilization of machine-based learning and
artificial intelligence.
16 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.comProxy Summary
2024 Proxy Statement
Proxy Summary
Financial Highlights
ADJUSTED NET INCOME* NET INCOME APPLICABLE TO TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN
COMMON SHAREHOLDERS VS. PEER(1) RETURNS
2023 $251M
2023 ($316M) 1 Yr 6.3 Allstate
2022 ($239M)
8.8 P&C Peers(2)
2022 ($1.39B)
2021 $4.05B 9.2 Peers(2)
2021 $1.50B 8.0 Life Peers(2)
ADJUSTED NET INCOME RETURN BOOK VALUE PER 3 Yr 38.3
ON ALLSTATE COMMON EQUITY* COMMON SHARE 61.2
2023 1.5% 2023 $59.39 58.8
58.2
2022 (1.2%) 2022 $58.12
2021 17.1% 2021 $80.70
5 Yr 91.7
125.0
ADJUSTED NET INCOME POLICIES IN FORCE 114.4
PER COMMON SHARE* 104.3
2023 49.1M 145.3M
2023 $0.95
2022 50.3M 138.7M
2022 ($0.88)
2021 49.9M 141.1M
2021 $13.53
Excluding Allstate Protection Plans
Allstate Protection Plans
* For definitions of these terms, please see the definitions of non-GAAP measures on pages 119-121 of our 2024 Proxy Statement.
(1) The peers are listed on page 73.
(2) Market Cap Weighted Average
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 17Sustainability Highlights
Sustainability at Allstate
Allstate’s shared purpose guides how we run the business. Sustainability
issues are fundamentally connected to Allstate’s business and providing
Sustainability
products and services that are accessible, competitively priced and
Report
mindful of environmental and social impacts is important to our strategy.
Read our 2023
sustainability report to see
how Allstate is working
to create a safer, more
Our Integrated Approach
sustainable world for
future generations.
Allstate integrates sustainability priorities across the enterprise by embedding them
into key efforts like the development of products and services and management of
the company’s investment portfolio.
We utilize a Societal Engagement Framework to evaluate, prioritize and
communicate Allstate’s participation on important societal issues. Allstate takes a
meaningful position on issues that most align with our values and business priorities.
The framework is reviewed by the Board of Directors to ensure alignment.
Materiality Assessment
Since 2015, we have collaborated with internal and external stakeholders to
discern the issues with the most significant impact on our capacity to generate
value, manage risks effectively and meet stakeholder expectations. This helps us
identify and assess our most significant risks, opportunities and impacts relating to
sustainability. In 2023, we worked in close collaboration with an external consultant
to revisit our sustainability priorities.
Results from this materiality assessment helped refine our sustainability initiatives
and goals as well as proactively align our sustainability disclosures with emerging
trends in global reporting standards and regulations. The results strongly align with
Allstate’s existing Transformative Growth strategy, Societal Engagement Framework
and Our Shared Purpose, which emphasize customers, products, innovation, climate
resilience, data privacy and Inclusive Diversity & Equity.
18 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Sustainability at Allstate
Societal Engagement Framework
Allstate seeks to have a positive impact on society and serve stakeholders. To achieve this, we must focus our resources,
maximize our impact and reduce risk. To balance these priorities, we created a societal engagement framework to help
inform how we engage as a company on key societal issues with our internal and external stakeholders.
Six principles inform our position on issues and the actions we take:
2. Is it important to our 3. What is our level of
1. Does it align with our values?
ability to serve customers? expertise on the issue?
4. Do we have an
5. Does it affect stakeholders? 6. Does it affect risk adjusted returns?
ability to effect change?
Societal issues and actions are then categorized as lead, support or no engagement:
Lead Support No engagement
Advocate and engage actively Work with partners to address the issue Monitor and assess the issue but
in a way that benefits stakeholders don’t engage
Climate Resilience, Data Privacy and Inclusive Diversity & Equity are three key priorities for the company.
We prioritized Climate Resilience. More frequent and severe weather impacts our customers,
three communities and shareholders. Allstate is protecting homes and communities and
advocating for stronger building codes, adequate disaster response capabilities,
sustainability
and public-private partnerships to help homeowners. We work with state and local
topics:
governments to help create evacuation plans, improve mitigation and address
(1) Climate
the costs of rebuilding. These efforts lower property damage and insurance costs,
Resilience, and more importantly, keep people safe. To benefit our business, customers and
(2) Data Privacy communities, we’ve also made net zero commitments for our operations and invested
and (3) Inclusive in the transition to a lower-carbon economy.
Diversity & Data Privacy. To run our business and serve customers, we use personal information,
Equity. which we must protect. We do that by maintaining an industry-leading data privacy
program, actively managing cybersecurity risks and influencing public policy on data
privacy.
Inclusive Diversity & Equity. To achieve Our Shared Purpose, employees, agents
and customers must feel comfortable showing up as their authentic selves. Inclusive
Diversity & Equity (“IDE”) recognizes and respects unique identities with equitable
opportunities and rewards for all and strengthens the way we create opportunity for
our team, improve communities, and better protect and serve customers.
Allstate’s impact goes far beyond insuring our customers. We are working to create a more sustainable
world for future generations.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 192024 Proxy Statement
Sustainability at Allstate
Our Sustainability Strategy
FOCUSING ON
IMPORTANT TOPICS… …LEADS TO VALUE CREATION
Planet We seek to make insurance Weather related catastrophes have been more severe,
affordable and available impacting customers and our business. Success relies
in the face of frequent on modeling, pricing, and managing climate-related
and severe catastrophic risks effectively.
weather. We work to improve
climate resiliency while
providing adequate returns
for shareholders.
Prosperity Allstate ensures customers Our reputation and success require us to balance risk
have a private, safe and and return for customers, employees, shareholders and
secure digital experience. communities. Allstate is a leading digital insurer and
Shareholders are provided champion for data privacy. We have robust information
attractive financial returns security policies and systems that protect customer and
paired with positive employee data. As an institutional investor, we pursue
environmental and prosperity for all through a portfolio that delivers attractive
social impact. risk-adjusted returns while enhancing impact.
People Customer protection and We are committed to empowering customers with
employee wellbeing are at affordable, simple and connected products and experiences.
the heart of our purpose- Our inclusive workplace and diverse supply chain help us
driven culture. better serve our employees and customers. Allstate and The
Allstate Foundation continue to make a difference for the
people in our communities.
20 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Sustainability at Allstate
Our Key Sustainability Priorities
Allstate has made significant strides in advancing our sustainability goals.
GOALS PROGRESS
Achieve net zero Scope 1 and 2 93,521 mt CO2e total Scope 1
Planet
emissions by 2030 and 2 (market-based) emissions
in 2022
We incorporate climate risk analysis
into product development and pricing
Convert 100% of Allstate’s fleet As of year-end 2023, our fleet of
and advocate for climate resiliency. We
to hybrid vehicles by 2025 1,972 vehicles was 58% hybrid
work to mitigate the environmental
impacts of our operations, supply chain Engage suppliers to disclose In 2023, 138 suppliers disclosed
and investments. their environmental data environmental data via CDP, an
via CDP, formerly Carbon 88% response rate
Disclosure Project, and measure
their environmental impact
and performance
GOALS PROGRESS
Provide cybersecurity education Cyber Safety for Kids and Cyber
Prosperity
in our communities to empower Safety for Older Adults programs
everyone to be safe online included 10,026 kids (about a 2.4x
We keep customer data private and
secure while responsibly using it increase from 2022) and 667 adults
to improve customer service. We (a 14% increase from 2022)
have robust resources, training and
governance guidelines that ensure ethics Increase employees’ awareness 99% of employees who attended
and integrity in business processes of security threats and trends cybersecurity events said they
and relationships. learned something new and
better to help understand
how cybersecurity plays a role
in their work
GOALS PROGRESS
Increase and enhance customer Protection Services policies in
People
coverage force increased 4.3% compared
to 2022
The products we offer and the
technologies we integrate in them are
Decrease voluntary turnover rate In 2023, we cut our voluntary
designed to be affordable, simple and
of our 53,000 full-time and 400 turnover rate in half at Allstate
connected. Our organizational culture
part-time employees U.S. year-over-year to 12%
and commitment to Inclusive Diversity &
Equity help every Allstater thrive so our Maintain or increase Allstate’s Employee engagement scores
business and customers can thrive. employee engagement scores have rebounded to pre-pandemic
levels: 83.5% of employees have
a favorable view of engagement
at Allstate, higher than the
industry benchmark of 79%
Increase procurement spending In 2023, we spent
with diverse suppliers to reduce $430 million with 2,110
supply chain risk while fostering diverse suppliers
greater economic equity
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 212024 Proxy Statement
Sustainability at Allstate
Responsible Investing – Aligning with Sustainability Priorities
As of December 31, 2023, we managed a $66.68 billion investment portfolio and actively evaluated how sustainability issues
impact investment performance. We integrate sustainability considerations into our investment analysis, risk management
and decision-making processes and climate change and IDE are considerations in generating strong risk-adjusted returns.
GOALS 2023 PROGRESS
Continue to increase the percentage of Responsible investments in Allstate’s
Broad Portfolio
the portfolio allocated to responsible investment portfolio increased from $7.5
Use limitations, structure investments from 12% at year-end 2022 billion to $7.7 billion, with a decrease
and analytics to assess from 12% to 11% due to overall portfolio
appreciation as of year-end 2023, including
allocation impacts on
education, sustainability, affordable housing,
sustainability goals
health care, green bonds, diverse sponsors,
and renewable investments
Strive for $200 million in new commitments Allstate achieved $211 million in
with diverse investment sponsors and commitments to diverse investment
managers in 2023, nearly 3x historical sponsors and managers
annual average
GOALS 2023 PROGRESS
Impact Expand climate-related investment Committed $201 million in climate-related
capabilities and relationships opportunities in 2023
Sub-Portfolio
Invest in solving societal
problems in a targeted
manner while achieving
attractive returns
GOALS 2023 PROGRESS
Other Activities Maintain 2% of trading volumes with Allstate exceeded our 2023 goal with 3% of
minority, women and veteran banking trading volumes with diverse brokers
Align investment so they enterprises (“MWVBE”) in 2023
support our sustainability goals
Increase opportunity for women and racially Founding partner of Asset Manager
and ethnically diverse individuals in the asset Diversity Accelerator (“AMDA”) program
management industry alongside William Blair and LGIM America,
a two-year rotational development
program for job seekers from diverse and
under-represented groups
22 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Sustainability at Allstate
Sustainability Governance Model
Board of Directors
The Board believes sustainability benefits Allstate’s stakeholders and drives long-term value creation.
The Board has oversight responsibility for sustainability and receives regular updates on sustainability priorities.
Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility Committee
The nominating, governance and social responsibility committee supplements the Board’s review of sustainability matters, and
receives regular updates on sustainability matters.
Additionally, other Board committees focus on specific components of the sustainability strategy.
The risk and return committee The compensation and human capital committee The audit committee reviews
reviews climate change risk. reviews organizational health and other human capital data privacy and cybersecurity.
management practices.
Chief Sustainability Officer
Our chief sustainability officer works with leadership from across the company to guide Allstate’s sustainability efforts and provides
regular reports about the company’s progress to the nominating, governance and social responsibility committee and the full Board.
ESG Steering Committee
Allstate has had an ESG Steering Committee (formerly, the Sustainability Council) since 2007. This cross-functional management
committee supports Allstate’s ongoing commitment to environmental, health and safety, corporate social responsibility, human
capital management, corporate governance, sustainability, and other public policy matters.
The committee includes leaders from across the company and is co-chaired by the senior vice president of Corporate Strategy and
the chief sustainability officer. The ESG Steering Committee meets regularly.
Responsible Investing Committee Sustainability Team
The Responsible Investing Committee monitors sustainable investing The Sustainability team develops the annual
trends, evaluates sustainable investing best practices, supports the work sustainability report, responds to ratings and
of the ESG Steering Committee and periodically reports about its activities rankings questionnaires, drives employee
to senior leaders within Allstate. In conjunction with Allstate’s Investments awareness and engagement with corporate
Risk Committee, the Responsible Investing Committee also monitors sustainability initiatives and reports to the ESG
our investment portfolio for potential short- and long-term exposures to Steering Committee.
climate change.
See page 55 for information about the Board’s role in overseeing sustainability.
Sustainability Awards and Recognition
Newsweek America’s Most Member of Dow Jones Top Diversity Employer
Responsible Companies Sustainability North America (DiversityJobs)
and World Indices
The Muse Vibe Awards: Best Forbes World’s Best Employers Ethisphere World’s Most
Companies for Work Flexibility Ethical Companies
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 23Donald E. Brown, 52
Executive Vice President and Chief
Innovation Officer of NiSource, Inc.
Tenure: 4 | Other Public Boards: 0
Committees: A N
Gender/Ethnic Diversity
Kermit R. Crawford, 64
75%
Former President and Chief Operating
Officer of Rite Aid Corporation Committee chairs
Tenure: 11 | Other Public Boards: 2
Committees: A E R Balanced Tenure
Richard T. Hume, 64
CEO of TD SYNNEX
Tenure: 4 | Other Public Boards: 1
Committees: C R
Committee Chair
Margaret M. Keane, 64 A Audit Committee
Former Chair, CEO and President of
Synchrony Financial Compensation and
C Human Capital
Tenure: 6 | Other Public Boards: 1 Committee
Committees: C N
Executive
E
Committee
Siddharth N. (Bobby) Mehta, 65 Perry M. Traquina, 67
Nominating,
Former President and Governance Former Chairman, CEO, and Managing
CEO of TransUnion N and Social Partner of Wellington Management
Responsibility Company LLP
Tenure: 10 | Other Public Boards: 2
Committee
Committees: R A E Tenure: 7 | Other Public Boards: 2
R
Risk and Return Committees: C
Committee
Maria Morris, 61 New
Former EVP and Head of Global
Benefits at MetLife Monica Turner, 58
President, North America at
Tenure: 0 | Other Public Boards: 2
Procter & Gamble
Committees(1)
Tenure: 1 | Other Public Boards: 0
Thomas J. Wilson, 66 Committees: A N
Chair, President, and CEO of The
Allstate Corporation
Tenure: 17 | Other Public Boards: 0
Committees: E
Gregg M. Sherrill, 71
Independent Lead Director
Former Chair and CEO of Tenneco Inc.
Tenure: 6 | Other Public Boards: 1
Committees:
Judith A. Sprieser, 70
Former CEO of Transora Inc. and senior
executive at Sara Lee Corporation
Tenure: 24 | Other Public Boards: 2
Committees: C R
E R
Voting Roadmap
01 Election of 13 Directors
Donald E. Brown Kermit R. Crawford Richard T. Hume Margaret M. Keane Siddharth N. (Bobby) Mehta Maria Morris
Jacques P. Perold Andrea Redmond Gregg M. Sherrill Judith A. Sprieser Perry M. Traquina Monica Turner Thomas J. Wilson
• All candidates are highly successful executives with relevant skills and expertise
• Average independent director tenure of 7.9 years, with director candidates independent of management
• Diverse slate of directors with broad leadership experience; 61% of the nominees bring gender or ethnic diversity, including
three of the four committee chairs
• Industry-leading shareholder engagement program and highly-rated corporate governance practices
The Board recommends a vote FOR each director nominee.
See pages 28-65 for further information
Jacques P. Perold, 65
Former President of Fidelity
Management & Research Company
Tenure: 8 | Other Public Boards: 1
Committees: A R
Andrea Redmond, 68
Former Managing Director of Russell
Reynolds Associates Inc.
Tenure: 14 | Other Public Boards: 0
Committees: N C E
4 5 4
<5 years 5-10 years >10 years
E N
(1) Consistent with past practice, Ms. Morris’s committee assignments will be established during her first year of service.
24 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Voting Roadmap
Nominees’ Skills and Experiences Advance Our Strategy
Allstate has a well-rounded, diverse and independent Board with the institutional knowledge of longer-tenured directors
and fresh perspectives brought by newer directors. Directors have a variety of skills and experiences developed across
a broad range of industries and other public company boards. This enables effective oversight of the business and
incorporates best practices.
Key Skill or Qualification Link to Strategy % of Directors
Core Competencies
Strategic and Operational Demonstrates a practical understanding of developing, implementing and
100%
Oversight assessing business strategies, key initiatives and annual business plans.
Understands shareholder expectations and drives change based on
Shareholder Advocacy 100%
engagement feedback.
Supports Allstate’s goals of strong Board and management accountability,
Corporate Governance 100%
transparency, responsiveness and protection of shareholder interests.
Possesses strong leadership qualities, encourages robust and thoughtful
Leadership dialogue and decision-making, and provides succession planning 100%
opportunities for Board and committee leadership roles.
Additional Capabilities
Financial Services Assists with understanding the business and strategy of our company. 69%
Aids in Board’s role in overseeing the risks facing our company and
Risk Management provides effective oversight of our enterprise risk and return management 100%
(“ERRM”) program.
Brings financial reporting, audit knowledge and experience in capital markets
Accounting and Finance 92%
to support Allstate’s success.
Technology and/or Supports Allstate’s focus on improving internal operations and the customer
80%
Cybersecurity experience and protects customer information.
Understands business regulatory requirements throughout all 50 states
Complex, Highly
and applicable regulations by the U.S. federal government, Canada and 85%
Regulated Business
other countries.
Drives long-term sustainable value creation for shareholders and encourages
Sustainability 100%
effective oversight and transparency of Allstate’s sustainability priorities.
Ensures that Allstate has sufficient talent, robust development and retention
Succession Planning and
practices and supports our commitment to further inclusive diversity 100%
Human Capital Management
and equity.
Innovation and Helps Allstate grow its brand, enhance its reputation, generate disruptive
100%
Customer Focus innovation and extend or create new business models.
Government, Public Policy Assists in identifying and understanding compliance issues and the effect of
69%
and Regulatory Affairs governmental actions on our business.
Provides valuable insights on how Allstate should continue to grow and
Global Perspective 69%
manage its businesses outside the United States.
See page 29 for a detailed individual skills matrix.
Board
Director Committee Director
What’s New Nominees are Chairs are Director Nominees
Gender and/ Gender and/ Nominees that serve
or Racially/ or Racially/ Director are Racially/ or served
Ethnically Ethnically Nominees Ethnically as CEO or
Diverse Diverse are Women Diverse President
Ms. Morris was welcomed
to the Board this year. She
brings strong industry, 62% 75% 38% 31% 77%
strategic, operational and
risk management expertise.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 252024 Proxy Statement
Voting Roadmap
02 Say-on-Pay: Advisory Vote on the Compensation
of the Named Executives
• Independent oversight by compensation and human capital committee of the Board
• Independent compensation consultant utilized to evaluate and benchmark compensation program
• Executive compensation targeted at 50th percentile of peers and aligned with short- and long-term business goals
and strategy
• Compensation programs are working effectively. Annual incentive compensation funding for our named executives in 2023
was reduced by 50% from the formulaic result of 100% of target due to negative Net Income.
The Board recommends a vote FOR this proposal.
See pages 66-106 for further information
2023 Compensation Program Components
Allstate’s executive compensation program reflects our pay-for-performance culture and supports shareholder alignment
while also incentivizing our executives:
Cash Long-Term Equity-Based Incentive
Fixed Performance-Based/At-Risk
COMPONENT Salary Annual Cash Incentive Performance Stock Awards Stock Options
LINK TO Targeted at 50th Motivates and rewards executives Motivates and rewards Stock options
SHAREHOLDER percentile of for performance on key strategic, executives for performance comprise 40% of
VALUE peers to support operational and financial measures on key long-term measures equity incentives
Allstate’s goal during the year. and aligns the interests of granted in
of attracting executives with long-term 2023, which was
2023 measures: Total Premiums,
and retaining shareholder value. reduced to 20%
Performance Net Income and
top executive beginning in 2024
Net Investment Income. Payout 2023 measures: Average
talent which to align executive
reduction in the event of negative Performance Net Income
ensures strong compensation
net income further aligns payouts Return on Equity (“ROE”),
leadership with long-term
with shareholder value creation. Relative Total Shareholder
over Allstate’s shareholder value.
Return, Transformative
businesses.
Growth and Inclusive Diversity
and Equity.
Target Compensation Mix
CEO At-Risk Performance-Based Pay: 92%
8%
Base 23% 41% 28%
Salary Annual Cash Incentive Performance Stock Awards Stock Options
OTHER NEOs
At-Risk Performance-Based Pay: 81%
19% 24% 34% 23%
Base Salary Annual Cash Incentive Performance Stock Awards Stock Options
50% Average Performance Net Income ROE
45% Total Premiums
Performance 30% Relative TSR
45% Performance Net Income
Metrics 10% Transformative Growth
10% Net Investment Income
10% Inclusive Diversity and Equity
26 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Voting Roadmap
03 Ratification of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the
Independent Registered Public Accountant for 2024
• Independent firm with few ancillary services and reasonable fees
• Significant industry and financial reporting expertise
• The audit committee annually evaluates Deloitte & Touche LLP and has determined that its retention continues
to be in the best interests of Allstate and its shareholders
The Board recommends a vote FOR this proposal.
See pages 107-110 for further information
04 Shareholder Proposal to have an Independent
Board Chairman
• It is in the best interests of Allstate’s stockholders for the Board to have the ability to determine the best
person to serve as Board Chair
• Allstate’s independent Lead Director provides additional leadership of the Board
• There are other structural safeguards to provide effective independent oversight of Allstate
The Board recommends a vote AGAINST this proposal.
See pages 111-112 for further information
Based off feedback from our shareholder engagement throughout the year, shareholders are supportive of Allstate’s
governance and compensation practices.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 27Proposal 01 Election of Corporate
13 Directors Governance
Corporate
governance
01 Election of 13 Directors
What am I voting on?
VOTING RECOMMENDATION:
The Board The Board recommends 13 nominees for election to the Allstate Board for
one-year terms beginning in May 2024 and until a successor is duly elected
recommends a and qualified or his or her earlier resignation or removal.
vote FOR
Overview
each director
• All candidates are highly successful executives with relevant skills
and expertise
nominee.
• Average independent director tenure of 7.9 years, with director
candidates independent of management
• Diverse slate of directors with broad leadership experience; 61% of the
nominees bring gender or ethnic diversity, including three of the four
committee chairs
• Industry-leading shareholder engagement program and highly-rated
corporate governance practices
Each nominee was previously elected at Allstate’s annual meeting of
shareholders on May 23, 2023, for a one-year term, with the exception of
Ms. Morris who joined the Board in 2024. The Board expects all nominees
named in this proxy statement to be available for election. If any nominee
is not available, then the proxies may vote for a substitute. On the following
pages, we list the reasons for nominating each individual.
29 Our Director Nominees 38 Board Governance 58 Board Effectiveness
29 The Director Nominees 38 Effective Board Governance 61 Board Accountability
at a Glance at Allstate
63 More Information
30 Director Biographies 39 Board Composition
41 Board Structure 64 Director Compensation
37 Board and Nominee
Independence
48 Engaged Oversight
Determinations
28 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.comOur Director Nominees
The Director Nominees at a Glance
Name and Principal
Occupation
Director Skills and
Experience Matrix
naciremA
nacirfA/kcalB
cificaP
rehtO/naisA
rednalsI
naisacuaC/etihW
redneG
egA
)sraey(
eruneT
seettimmoC
draoB
cilbuP
rehtO
fo
rebmuN
sdraoB
ynapmoC
Skills and Experiences
secivreS
laicnaniF
tnemeganaM
ksiR
dna
gnitnuoccA
ecnaniF
ro/dna
ygolonhceT
ytirucesrebyC
evitcepsreP
labolG
ylhgiH
,xelpmoC
ssenisuB
detalugeR
ytilibaniatsuS
gninnalP
noisseccuS
latipaC
namuH
dna
tnemeganaM
dna
noitavonnI
ecivreS
remotsuC
cilbuP
,tnemnrevoG
yrotalugeR
dna
yciloP sriaffA
Corporate Governance
2024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Thomas J. Wilson
Chair, President and CEO of M 66 17 E 0
The Allstate Corporation
Gregg M. Sherrill
E
Independent Lead Director M 71 6 1
Former Chair and CEO of N
Tenneco Inc.
Donald E. Brown
Former Executive Vice A
President and Chief M 52 4 0
N
Innovation Officer of
NiSource, Inc.
Kermit R. Crawford
A
Former President and Chief
Operating Officer of Rite M 64 11 E 2
Aid Corporation R
Richard T. Hume
C
CEO of TD SYNNEX M 64 4 1
R
Margaret M. Keane
Former Chair, CEO and C
F 64 6 1
President of Synchrony N
Financial
Siddharth N. (Bobby) R
Mehta
M 65 10 A 2
Former President and CEO of
TransUnion E
Maria Morris
Former EVP and Head of F 61 <1 2
Global Benefits at MetLife
Jacques P. Perold
Former President of Fidelity A
M 65 8 1
Management & Research R
Company
Andrea Redmond N
Former Managing Director
F 68 14 C 0
of Russell Reynolds
Associates Inc. E
Judith A. Sprieser
Former CEO of Transora Inc. C
F 70 24 2
and senior executive at R
Sara Lee Corporation
Perry M. Traquina
C
Former Chairman, CEO
and Managing Partner of M 67 7 E 2
Wellington Management R
Company LLP
Monica Turner A
President, North America at F 58 1 0
N
Procter & Gamble
Committee A Audit C Compensation and Human E Executive N Nominating, Governance and R Risk and Return
Chair Committee Capital Committee Committee Social Responsibility Committee Committee
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 292024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Director Biographies
Donald E.
Key Experience and Qualifications
Brown
Risk Management: Overall responsibility Sustainability: Experience developing and leading
Independent for identifying and evaluating financial risk transition to a less carbon-intensive business model.
Age 52 exposures and determining steps to mitigate Succession Planning and Human Capital
those risks during tenure at NiSource. Management: Responsibilities as senior leader
Accounting and Finance: Significant financial at NiSource included oversight of employee
Director since 2020 (4 years of tenure) and accounting experience leading the recruitment, development and retention, as well as
financial operations of one of the largest utility leadership of large teams.
Professional Experience
companies in the country. Innovation and Customer Focus: Experience
• Former Executive Vice President and
Technology and/or Cybersecurity: In-depth overseeing business focused on delivering safe,
Chief Innovation Officer of NiSource,
understanding of technological advancements reliable and efficient services to customers
Inc., a highly regulated natural gas
and operational transformation to enhance the and communities.
and electric utilities company serving
customers across multiple states. customer experience. Government, Public Policy and Regulatory
Complex, Highly Regulated Businesses: Affairs: Deep understanding of compliance and
• Former EVP and CFO of NiSource, Inc.
Regulatory expertise within the heavily regulated governmental requirements as a senior leader of
Other Public Board Service utilities industry. one of the largest fully regulated utility companies in
the United States.
• None
Attendance at Board/Committee
Meetings Committee Assignments and Rationale
20/20
A Audit Committee
• Multiple leadership positions with financial oversight responsibility, including as former CFO at NiSource.
N Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility Committee
• Management and leadership experience as senior leader of NiSource, including oversight of employee
talent and retention programs.
• Experience leading climate strategies for large gas and electric company.
Kermit R.
Key Experience and Qualifications
Crawford
Risk Management: Deep understanding Sustainability: Over 30 years of operational
Independent
of consumer experiences and insights, and experience included driving sustainability initiatives.
Age 64 extensive experience in business strategy and Experience also gained as current chair of
risk management. governance committee at another public company.
Accounting and Finance: Responsible for Succession Planning and Human Capital
Director since 2013 (11 years of tenure)
all operational aspects of large drugstore Management: Responsibilities as senior leader at
Professional Experience chains throughout the country, including leading retail drugstore chains included leadership
financial results. of large divisions and human capital priorities and
• Former President and Chief Operating
Officer of Rite Aid Corporation, which Technology and/or Cybersecurity: Effectively culture.
operates one of the leading retail led operational change, including through the Innovation and Customer Focus: Effectively
drugstore chains in the United States. use of technology. oversaw transition of pharmacy experience from a
• Former Executive Vice President and Complex, Highly Regulated Businesses: model focused primarily on drug delivery to a
President, Pharmacy, Health and Expertise assessing the strategies and pharmacist-patient centric model.
Wellness for Walgreens Co., which performance of a geographically distributed and Government, Public Policy and Regulatory Affairs:
operates one of the largest drugstore consumer-focused service business in a highly Understanding of legal and regulatory requirements
chains in the United States. competitive industry. relevant for large, public companies to ensure
compliance.
• Former Director of TransUnion and
LifePoint Health.
Other Public Board Service Committee Assignments and Rationale
• C.H. Robinson (2020–present)
A Audit Committee (Chair)
• Visa (2022–present)
• Responsibility for all aspects of strategic, operational and profit and loss management of two of the
Attendance at Board/Committee
largest drugstore chains in the United States.
Meetings
21/21 • Board leadership and eleven years tenure on Allstate Board.
• Current member of the audit committee at Visa and former member of the audit committees at
TransUnion and LifePoint Health.
R Risk and Return Committee
• Operational experience at large, geographically dispersed service organizations.
• Chair of Allstate audit committee.
30 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Richard T.
Key Experience and Qualifications
Hume
Risk Management: Deep understanding of Sustainability: Experience developing and
Independent risk evaluation and management throughout driving sustainability initiatives in role as CEO of a
business transformation. public company.
Age 64
Accounting and Finance: Strong operational Succession Planning and Human Capital
experience through various roles, including Management: Significant management and
Director since 2020 (4 years of tenure) overseeing financial and accounting operations succession planning experience through various
and as a financial executive at IBM. senior leadership roles.
Professional Experience
Technology and/or Cybersecurity: Extensive Innovation and Customer Focus: Experience
• Current CEO and director of TD
technology background as a senior leader overseeing innovative strategy, technological
SYNNEX, a global IT distribution and
at IBM and CEO of an IT distribution and advancement and transformative growth in global
solutions company.
solutions company. business services.
• Former COO of Tech Data Corporation.
Global Perspective: Experience overseeing all
• Former General Manager and COO, aspects of global operations of TD SYNNEX.
Global Technology Services at IBM.
Other Public Board Service
Committee Assignments and Rationale
• TD SYNNEX (2021–present)
Attendance at Board/Committee C Compensation and Human Capital Committee
Meetings
• Significant management experience leading large companies as CEO and COO.
21/21
• Comprehensive market knowledge of executive compensation, recruitment and succession practices as
CEO of TD SYNNEX.
R Risk and Return Committee
• In-depth understanding of technology, innovation and transformative growth.
• Responsibility for strategic direction of large technology company.
Margaret
Key Experience and Qualifications
M. Keane
Financial Services: Extensive operational and Sustainability: Drove various sustainability priorities
Independent strategic experience in the consumer financial and programs throughout tenure as CEO, including
Age 64 services industry as CEO of Synchrony Financial. diversity and inclusion initiatives.
Risk Management: In-depth understanding and Succession Planning and Human Capital
experience in risk and return management as Management: Significant experience in developing
Director since 2018 (6 years of tenure)
CEO of financial services company. succession planning and performance goals as CEO
Professional Experience Accounting and Finance: Responsible for overall of Synchrony Financial.
• Former Chair, CEO and President operations of large financial services company. Innovation and Customer Focus: Led strategic
of Synchrony Financial, a consumer Technology and/or Cybersecurity: Valuable and technology transformation in rapidly changing
financial services company. insights into innovation and technology consumer payments industry.
• Former President and CEO of GE transformation strategies for a large financial Government, Public Policy and Regulatory Affairs:
Capital Retail Finance. services company. Experience working with Business Roundtable to
Complex, Highly Regulated Businesses: promote a thriving U.S. economy and expanded
Other Public Board Service Successful leadership experience across roles opportunity for all Americans through sound
• Tenable (2023–present) spanning consumer finance, vendor financial public policy.
services, operations and quality.
Attendance at Board/Committee
Meetings
20/20 Committee Assignments and Rationale
C Compensation and Human Capital Committee
• Substantial experience in establishing management performance objectives and specific goals.
• Significant market knowledge of executive compensation as the former CEO of Synchrony Financial.
N Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility Committee
• Board leadership as former Chair of Synchrony Financial.
• Thought leader and driver of inclusion and diversity initiatives.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 312024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Siddharth
Key Experience and Qualifications
N. (Bobby)
Mehta Financial Services: Extensive operational and Complex, Highly Regulated Businesses: Valuable
strategic experience in the industry as CEO of insights into the highly regulated insurance industry
TransUnion and HSBC Finance Corporation. and investment activities throughout career in
Independent financial services industry.
Risk Management: Deep understanding of
Age 65 identifying and managing risk within global risk Sustainability: Investor in climate analytics
Director since 2014 (10 years of tenure) and information solutions provider. company and thorough understanding of climate
risk at financial services company.
Accounting and Finance: Multiple leadership
Professional Experience positions with financial and accounting oversight Succession Planning and Human Capital
• Former President and CEO of responsibility throughout career. Management: Led human capital and diversity and
TransUnion, a global provider inclusion initiatives and oversaw succession planning
of credit information and risk Technology and/or Cybersecurity: Experience during tenure as CEO.
overseeing cybersecurity risk initiatives and
management solutions. Innovation and Customer Focus: Significant
programs as director at other public companies.
• Former CEO, HSBC North America experience within customer-centric banking
Global Perspective: Demonstrated leadership and credit markets including the use of
Holdings Inc.
that increased revenues and global reach advanced analytics.
• Former CEO, HSBC Finance through the use of technology. Government, Public Policy and Regulatory Affairs:
Corporation.
Understanding of compliance issues within highly
• Former Director of TransUnion and regulated financial services industry and effect of
Piramal Enterprises Ltd. governmental actions.
Other Public Board Service
• JLL (Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated) Committee Assignments and Rationale
(2019–present)
• Northern Trust Corp. (2019–present) R Risk and Return Committee (Chair)
Attendance at Board/Committee • Significant experience in financial markets and utilization of data and analytics.
Meetings • In-depth understanding and experience in risk and return management as a director and former CEO.
21/21
A Audit Committee
• Multiple leadership positions with financial oversight responsibility, including President and CEO of
TransUnion, CEO of HSBC Finance Corporation and CEO of HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
• Chair of Allstate risk and return committee.
Maria
Key Experience and Qualifications
Morris
Financial Services: Extensive operational and Complex, Highly Regulated Businesses:
Independent strategic experience in the industry gained Brings valuable strategic, operational and industry
Age 61 through tenure at MetLife. experience in heavily-regulated insurance industry
Risk Management: In-depth understanding of from 33-year career with MetLife.
risks relevant to financial services and insurance Sustainability: Over 30 years of leadership
Director since 2024 (<1 years of tenure) industries and additional experience gained as experience with insurance company including
risk committee chair at another public company. driving sustainability initiatives relevant to industry
Professional Experience Accounting and Finance: Held multiple and oversight of refreshed corporate responsibility
• Former Executive Vice President, Global leadership positions throughout career at strategy.
Employee Benefits Business, MetLife. MetLife requiring financial and operational Succession Planning and Human Capital
• Other senior leadership roles during 33- oversight and serves as chair of audit committee Management: Expert in employee benefits,
year career at MetLife including Interim at another public company. succession planning and human capital
Head of MetLife U.S. Business, Interim Technology and/or Cybersecurity: Expertise management, as well as member of human
Chief Marketing Officer and Head of gained through role as Head of Global resources committee at another public company.
Global Technology and Operations. Technology and Operations at MetLife including Innovation and Customer Focus: Experience
oversight of $1.6 billion technology portfolio. acquired through various leadership roles including
Other Public Board Service as Interim Chief Marketing Officer at MetLife.
Global Perspective: Responsibility for MetLife’s
• S&P Global (2016–present) U.S. Business and Employee Benefits business
• Wells Fargo (2018–present) in more than 40 countries.
Attendance at Board/Committee
Meetings Committee Assignments and Rationale
Joined in 2024
• Consistent with past practice, committee assignments will be established during first year
of service.
32 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Jacques P.
Key Experience and Qualifications
Perold
Financial Services: Led investments and Complex, Highly Regulated Businesses: In-depth
Independent operations for large mutual fund as well as understanding of SEC and FINRA rules that regulate
Age 65 founded investment advisory firm. financial services industry.
Risk Management: Deep understanding of Sustainability: Served as chair of corporate
risks relevant to financial services industry, responsibility committee at another public company
Director since 2015 (8 years of tenure)
specifically related to investment activities. which includes oversight of sustainability initiatives.
Professional Experience Accounting and Finance: Held multiple Succession Planning and Human Capital
• Chair and founder of CapShift, an leadership positions throughout career Management: As senior business leader,
investment advisory firm. requiring financial and accounting established executive compensation program
oversight responsibilities. management objectives and goals.
• Former President of Fidelity
Management & Research Company, Technology and/or Cybersecurity: Experience Innovation and Customer Focus: Leader
a privately-held investment and using data-driven tools and solutions to help of one of the world’s largest asset managers
asset management company serving clients build more effective portfolios. representing customers with nearly $4 trillion assets
clients worldwide. under management.
• Founder, former President and Chief
Investment Officer of Geode Capital
Committee Assignments and Rationale
Management LLC, a global asset
manager and independent institutional
investment firm and sub-advisor A Audit Committee
to Fidelity.
• Multiple leadership positions with financial and operational oversight responsibilities, including as
• Current trustee of New York Life President of Fidelity Management & Research Company.
Insurance Company’s MainStay Funds.
R Risk and Return Committee
Other Public Board Service
• MSCI Inc. (2017–present) • Significant experience in management and oversight of risk for three large asset management firms.
• Current trustee of several mutual funds.
Attendance at Board/Committee
Meetings
21/21
Andrea
Key Experience and Qualifications
Redmond
Financial Services: Substantial experience Succession Planning and Human Capital
Independent in financial services leadership selection and Management: Expert in public company succession
Age 68 executive development. planning, human capital management and executive
Risk Management: Extensive experience in compensation across wide range of industries.
assessing necessary board capabilities and Innovation and Customer Focus: Valuable insights
Director since 2010 (14 years of tenure)
evaluating director candidates to ensure and judgment gained through supporting high-
Professional Experience adequate risk oversight on boards. performance organizations and clients in executing
• Former Managing Director, co-head Complex, Highly Regulated Businesses: on corporate strategies.
of the CEO/board services practice, Operational and strategic knowledge of highly Government, Public Policy and Regulatory
founder and leader of global insurance regulated financial service companies gained Affairs: Experience overseeing public policy issues
practice and member of financial through experience in recruiting senior leaders. and reporting as part of director responsibilities
services practice at Russell Reynolds Sustainability: Leads sustainability oversight at Allstate.
Associates Inc., a global executive responsibilities as chair of nominating, Global Perspective: Significant experience
search firm. governance and social responsibility committee. providing executive recruiting and succession
• Independent consultant providing planning services for large global search firm.
executive recruiting, succession
planning and human capital
management services. Committee Assignments and Rationale
Other Public Board Service N Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility Committee (Chair)
• None
• Significant expertise recruiting and evaluating directors for a variety of public companies.
Attendance at Board/Committee
• A senior partner at a highly regarded global executive search firm, Russell Reynolds Associates, from 1986
Meetings
to 2007, including significant tenure as co-head of the CEO/board services practice.
20/20
C Compensation and Human Capital Committee
• Experience in executive recruiting, succession planning and human capital management.
• Extensive experience working with numerous publicly traded companies to recruit and place
senior executives.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 332024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Gregg M.
Key Experience and Qualifications
Sherrill
Risk Management: In-depth understanding Sustainability: Oversight of sustainability priorities
Independent of risk and return management as CEO gained throughout tenure as leader of a large public
Lead Director and director. company, specifically related to emissions control.
Age 71 Accounting and Finance: Created financial Succession Planning and Human Capital
strategies and implemented operating plans to Management: Significant management
Director since 2017 (6 years of tenure) increase revenues and profitability during tenure experience, including executive recruitment and
at Tenneco. compensation programs.
Professional Experience
Technology and/or Cybersecurity: Technology Innovation and Customer Focus: Valuable insights
• Former Executive Chair, CEO and
expertise gained during tenure as a senior into transformation and innovation within customer-
director of Tenneco Inc., a producer of
operating executive. centric automotive industry.
automotive emission control and ride
control products and systems. Global Perspective: Successfully managed Government, Public Policy and Regulatory Affairs:
international operations as CEO of a global Understanding of public policy and regulatory issues
• Former Corporate Vice President
public company with employees in 23 countries. and participation with trade associations.
and President of Power Solutions
at Johnson Controls Inc., a global Complex, Highly Regulated Businesses: Brings
diversified technology and valuable insights and extensive operational
industrial company. and strategic experience within regulated
automotive industry.
Other Public Board Service
• Snap-on Inc. (2010–present)
Committee Assignments and Rationale
Attendance at Board/Committee
Meetings Lead Director
18/18
• Extensive board leadership experience as former Chair of Tenneco and former chair of organization and
executive compensation committee at Snap-On.
• Successfully led large, global manufacturing company through strategic growth and operational change.
• Possesses strong integrity and professional credibility with the other directors and has excellent
knowledge of Allstate’s strategy and business.
N Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility Committee
• Significant leadership experience as the former Chair and CEO of Tenneco, including oversight over
sustainability and governance matters.
• Experience on corporate boards.
Judith A.
Key Experience and Qualifications
Sprieser
Financial Services: Tenure as Allstate Complex, Highly Regulated Businesses:
Independent director has provided deep knowledge and Understanding of government regulations relevant
Age 70 understanding of financial services industry. to insurance industry acquired through tenure as
Risk Management: Risk and return Allstate director.
management expertise gained through Sustainability: Tenure as executive officer and
Director since 1999 (24 years of tenure)
service on boards of multiple publicly director at other public companies, including as
Professional Experience traded companies. former Lead Director at Allstate, has included
• Former CEO of Transora Inc., Accounting and Finance: Extensive evaluation oversight of sustainability initiatives and programs.
a technology software and of financial statements and supervision of Succession Planning and Human Capital
services company. financial executives during tenure as CFO. Management: Significant executive management
• Former CFO and other senior operating Global Perspective: Experience gained through and succession planning experience gained through
executive positions at Sara Lee service on boards of international companies. service on other boards and as a former CEO.
Corporation, a global manufacturer Innovation and Customer Focus: Wide-
and marketer of brand-name ranging operational experience at a consumer
consumer goods. goods company.
• Former director at Royal Ahold NV,
Experian, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc
Committee Assignments and Rationale
and Jimmy Choo plc.
Other Public Board Service C Compensation and Human Capital Committee
• Newell Brands Inc. (2018–present)
• Extensive experience leading other large companies as CEO and CFO.
• Intercontinental Exchange Inc.
• Experience serving on boards of other publicly traded and international companies.
(2004–present)
Attendance at Board/Committee R Risk and Return Committee
Meetings
• Insight from service as prior chair of Allstate’s audit committee and current audit committee chair at
21/21
Intercontinental Exchange Inc.
• Tenure as an Allstate director has provided experience through multiple operating environments.
34 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Perry M.
Key Experience and Qualifications
Traquina
Financial Services: Strong financial services and Complex, Highly Regulated Businesses: In-depth
Independent investment management expertise as CEO of understanding of SEC and FINRA rules that regulate
Age 67 large investment management firm. financial services industry.
Risk Management: Deep understanding of risk Sustainability: Oversaw sustainability initiatives
and return management within financial services during tenure as CEO and chairman of Wellington
Director since 2016 (7 years of tenure) industry and brings outside perspective as chair and provides insights gained from service on other
of risk committee at another public company. public company boards.
Professional Experience
Accounting and Finance: Expertise in Succession Planning and Human Capital
• Former Chairman, CEO and Managing
evaluating financial statements and reports Management: Deep understanding of executive
Partner of Wellington Management
gained through service on audit company at compensation practices.
Company LLP, one of the world’s
largest global investment management another public company as well as financial Innovation and Customer Focus: Built a world-class
firms with over $1 trillion of assets background. investment organization by more than doubling
under management. Technology and/or Cybersecurity: Experience assets under management during tenure.
• Held a series of positions of increasing on another public company audit committee Government, Public Policy and Regulatory
responsibility at Wellington, including includes oversight of cybersecurity programs. Affairs: Brings valuable market-oriented
Partner and President. Global Perspective: Led one of the world’s investor perspective.
largest global investment management firms
Other Public Board Service including the globalization of Wellington’s
• Morgan Stanley (2015–present) investment platform.
• eBay Inc. (2015–present)
Attendance at Board/Committee Committee Assignments and Rationale
Meetings
20/21 C Compensation and Human Capital Committee (Chair)
• Significant management experience as former Chairman and CEO of Wellington Management Company
LLP from 2004 through June 2014.
• Shareholder perspective on compensation and human capital as a significant investor and director of
other public companies.
R Risk and Return Committee
• In-depth understanding of financial markets, asset allocation strategies and investment
performance management.
• Current chair of the risk committee at Morgan Stanley.
Monica
Key Experience and Qualifications
Turner
Financial Services: Overall responsibility for all Sustainability: Responsibility for sustainability
Independent financial, sales and operational aspects of the initiatives and programs for North America region of
Age 58 largest and most profitable region of a global Procter & Gamble.
consumer goods company. Succession Planning and Human Capital
Risk Management: Significant experience in Management: Recognized leader of equality
Director since 2023 (1 year of tenure) management and oversight of risk and return for and inclusion within Procter & Gamble and the
a large consumer goods company. broader community.
Professional Experience
Accounting and Finance: Significant accounting Innovation and Customer Focus: Wide-ranging
• Current President, North America of and financial oversight experience gained operational and leadership experience at consumer
Procter & Gamble. through leadership of several business units goods company, serving 370 million consumers in
• Former President, North America Sales within Procter & Gamble. the region.
of Procter & Gamble. Technology and/or Cybersecurity: Experience Government, Public Policy and Regulatory
• Former EVP and Head of Sales, North delivering transformational results through Affairs: Responsible for operations, spanning sales
America of Procter & Gamble. technology in role as head of largest region of offices, technical centers, manufacturing plants
Procter & Gamble. and mixing centers and partners with multiple
Other Public Board Service Global Perspective: Extensive experience government agencies.
gained during tenure with one of the world’s
• None
largest consumer goods companies, including
Attendance at Board/Committee membership on Procter & Gamble’s Global
Meetings Leadership Council.
21/21
Committee Assignments and Rationale
A Audit Committee
• Multiple leadership positions with financial oversight responsibility in several business units across
Procter & Gamble.
N Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility Committee
• Significant leadership experience as President at Procter & Gamble, including oversight of sustainability
programs.
• Recognized thought leader on equality and inclusion.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 352024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Thomas J.
Key Experience and Qualifications
Wilson
Financial Services: Extensive experience gained Complex, Highly Regulated Businesses: Valuable
Board Chair, within financial services industry throughout insights into the highly regulated insurance industry
President and entire career, including 29 years with Allstate and and investment activities gained throughout career
Chief Executive holds other active leadership positions in the at Allstate, board service at State Street and vice
industry. chair role at Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago.
Officer
Risk Management: Created and implemented Sustainability: Enhanced sustainability initiatives at
Age 66
Allstate’s risk and return optimization program, Allstate and is noted public advocate for business
Director since 2006 (17 years of tenure) allowing Allstate to withstand the financial playing a broad role in society.
market crisis while also continuing to adapt to Succession Planning and Human Capital
Professional Experience increased severe weather. Management: Extensive experience leading large
• CEO since January 2007 and Chair of Accounting and Finance: Experience with teams and provides valuable insights in executive
Board since May 2008. strategic, financial and operational planning recruitment and succession planning.
• President from June 2005 to and analysis gained over tenure with Allstate, Innovation and Customer Focus: Shaped and
January 2015 and from February 2018, including as CEO and COO. executed initiatives to fulfill Allstate’s role with,
to present. Technology and/or Cybersecurity: Led and responsibilities to, its customers and other
• Held senior executive roles other investments in innovative products and services key stakeholders. Created and led Transformative
than CEO, having led all major at Allstate including telematics, digital protection Growth strategy to build a digital insurance
operating units. solutions and customer-centric innovations. business model.
• Former director at State Street Global Perspective: Leads Fortune 100 Government, Public Policy and Regulatory
Corporation. company with operations and over 20% of Affairs: Understanding of legal and regulatory
employees outside of the U.S. requirements relevant for large, public companies
Other Public Board Service to ensure compliance and extensive experience as
• None chair of U.S. Chamber of Commerce and member of
Financial Services Roundtable and Property-Liability
Attendance at Board/Committee CEO Forum.
Meetings
7/7
Committee Assignments and Rationale
E Executive Committee (Chair)
• Comprehensive knowledge of Allstate’s business and industry, with 29 years of leadership experience at
the company.
• Significant governance experience through Allstate and leadership of industry associations.
36 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.comCorporate Governance
2024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Board and Nominee Independence Determinations
The Board has determined that all nominated directors, other than Mr. Wilson,
are independent according to applicable law, the NYSE listing standards and the
Board’s Director Independence Standards. The Board’s Director Independence
12
Standards are included on www.allstateinvestors.com. In accordance with the 92%
Director Independence Standards, the Board has determined that the nature Independent
of the relationships with the corporation that are set forth in Appendix B do not
create a conflict of interest that would impair a director’s independence. The
Board also determined that the members of the audit, compensation and human
capital, nominating, governance and social responsibility, and risk and return
committees are independent according to applicable laws, the NYSE listing
standards and the Board’s Director Independence Standards.
Additional Independence Considerations
When evaluating the independence of director nominees, the Board weighs numerous factors, including tenure and service
on other public company boards.
Directors with more than 12 years of service are subject to specific considerations to ensure an undiminished level of
independence. In particular, the Board weighed the potential impact of tenure on the independence of our longest-
serving directors, Mses. Redmond and Sprieser. Ms. Redmond provides valuable perspectives and expertise on matters
of significance to Allstate and is a respected leader in the Board room. The Board concluded that Ms. Redmond is a
valued director who fulfills her responsibilities with independent-minded oversight. Ms. Sprieser has significant
experience serving at Allstate under different operating environments, management teams and financial market cycles
and served on the Board under two CEOs and prior to Mr. Wilson’s appointment. The Board concluded that Ms. Sprieser
is an effective director who fulfills her responsibilities with integrity and independence of thought. Mses. Redmond
and Sprieser appropriately challenge management and the status quo, and are reasoned, balanced and thoughtful in
Board deliberations and in communications with management. The Board determined that each of Ms. Redmond and
Ms. Sprieser’s independence from management has not been diminished by their years of service.
Related Person Transactions
The nominating, governance and social responsibility committee has adopted a written policy on the review, approval, or
ratification of transactions with related persons, which is posted on the Corporate Governance section of
www.allstateinvestors.com.
Since the beginning of 2023, there were no related person transactions identified.
The committee or committee chair reviews transactions with Allstate in which the amount involved exceeds $120,000
and in which any related person had, has, or will have a direct or indirect material interest. In general, related persons
are directors, executive officers, their immediate family members and shareholders beneficially owning more than 5% of
our outstanding stock. The committee or committee chair approves or ratifies only those transactions that are in, or not
inconsistent with, the best interests of Allstate and its shareholders. Transactions are reviewed and approved or ratified by
the committee chair when it is not practicable or desirable to delay review of a transaction until a committee meeting. The
committee chair reports any approved transactions to the committee. Any ongoing, previously approved or ratified related
person transactions are reviewed annually.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 372024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Board Governance
Effective Board Governance at Allstate
Allstate has a history of strong corporate governance guided by three primary principles: dialogue, transparency and
responsiveness. The Board has enhanced governance policies over time to align with best practices, drive sustained shareholder
value and serve the interests of shareholders.
1 Board • Regularly consider candidates in light of current skill
sets and needs, as well as in anticipation of retirements, Allstate believes
Composition
resignations or changing business dynamics that strong and
See pages • All candidates evaluated and considered for their effective governance
39-40 expertise, professional experiences and leadership practices are critical
• Diversity, including race, gender, ethnicity and to long-term value
culture, are also important factors in consideration of
creation. To achieve
Board composition
that goal, Allstate
• Added four new directors within the last five years
follows the six
corporate governance
2 Board • Clearly defined roles for Board leadership
principles set out
Structure • Strong Board independence with 12 out of 13 members
by the Investor
independent of management, including all standing
See pages committee members Stewardship Group for
41-47 • Instituted written policy to rotate Lead Director every U.S. listed companies.
three to five years and appointed new Lead Director
in 2021
• Independent Board Committees with frequent
executive sessions
• Appropriate director compensation structured in a
1. Boards are
manner that is aligned with shareholder interests
accountable to
• Board and Committee agendas and materials are shareholders
prepared in collaboration with Lead Director and
2. Shareholders
committee chairs
should be entitled
to voting rights in
3 Engaged • Frequent reviews of Allstate’s significant risks, including proportion to their
strategic, climate, human capital practices, culture, economic interest
Oversight
financial, investment markets and cybersecurity 3. Boards should
See pages
• Ongoing reviews of sustainability strategy, human be responsive
48-57 capital management, organizational health and to shareholders
Inclusive Diversity and Equity and be proactive
in order to
understand their
perspectives
4 Board • Board evaluation process includes multiple 4. Boards should
have a strong,
assessments and separate performance reviews of the
Effectiveness independent
Board, committees and individual directors
See pages • Robust director orientation and continuing director leadership
structure
58-60 education program
• High ratings of corporate governance by leading proxy 5. Boards should
advisory firm adopt structures
and practices that
enhance their
effectiveness
5 Board • Comprehensive and continuous shareholder
6. Boards should
engagement program based on dialogue, transparency
Accountability develop
and responsiveness
management
See pages • Interactive investor dialogue provides perspective on incentive
61-63 investor concerns structures that are
• Feedback is provided to the Board and actions are aligned with the
taken to reflect shareholder sentiment and ensure long-term strategy
continued best practice of the company
38 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
1
Board Composition
Essential Characteristics of Effective Directors
The Board considers multiple characteristics essential for each nominee to ensure Board excellence and effectiveness.
These characteristics are considered for proposed and standing directors consistent with the criteria described in the
Corporate Governance Guidelines (available at www.allstateinvestors.com).
Core Competencies Additional Capabilities Independent
Strategic oversight, shareholder Other skills, expertise and Directors should be free of
advocacy, corporate experience are needed on interests or affiliations that
governance and leadership are the Board to further facilitate could give rise to a biased
required core competencies effective oversight of Allstate’s approach to directorship
of all director nominees to business strategies and responsibilities or a conflict
ensure effective oversight of priorities. These are described of interest and be free of any
the company. on page 25. significant relationship with
Allstate that would interfere
with the director’s exercise of
independent judgment.
Committed and Engaged Other Directorships
Board members should have The Board has limits on the
the ability to devote the time number of other public boards
and effort necessary to serve on which our directors may
as an effective director and sit. Directors who are active
act in a manner consistent executives may serve on the
with a director’s fiduciary board of no more than two
duties of loyalty and care. other public companies, and
Allstate executive officers other directors may serve on
may not serve on boards of the board of no more than four
other corporations whose other public companies.
executive officers serve on
Allstate’s Board.
Diversity in its broadest sense is a key consideration in identifying and evaluating directors for
nomination. Our nominating, governance and social responsibility committee considers a number of
demographics and other factors, including race, gender and ethnicity, to ensure the Board reflects
diverse viewpoints, backgrounds, skills, experiences and expertise.
Our
3 1
Nominees Black/African American Asian/Other Pacific Islander
5
Women
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 392024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Board Nomination Process
The Board continually considers Evaluate Board Composition Ensure Board is strong in core
potential director candidates competencies of strategic oversight, corporate governance,
1
in anticipation of retirements, shareholder advocacy and leadership and has diversity of
resignations or the need for additional skills, expertise and perspectives to meet existing and future
capabilities. Below is a description of business needs
the ongoing process to identify highly
qualified candidates for Board service.
Board nominees are identified Assess Potential Candidates To ensure appropriate
through a retained search firm, 2 personal qualities, such as independence of mind, tenacity
suggestions from current directors and skill set to meet existing or future business needs and
and shareholders and through other strategic priorities
methods, including self-nominations.
Our newest director, Ms. Morris, was
recommended by a current director.
Consider Diversity The Board considers a number of
3
The nominating, governance and demographic factors to develop a Board that, as a whole,
social responsibility committee reflects diverse representation, viewpoints and backgrounds
will consider director candidates
recommended by a shareholder in the
same manner as all other candidates
recommended by other sources. 4 Meet with Qualified Candidates To ensure alignment with
A shareholder may recommend Board culture, effectiveness and excellence
a candidate at any time of the
year by writing to the Office of the
Secretary, The Allstate Corporation,
3100 Sanders Road, Northbrook, IL 5 Check Conflicts of Interest and References All candidates are
60062, or by email submission to screened for conflicts of interest and independence
invrel@allstate.com.
A shareholder or group of up to 20
shareholders owning 3% or more of
Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility Dialogue
Allstate’s outstanding common stock 6
To consider shortlisted candidates, and after deliberations,
continuously for at least three years
recommend candidates for election to the Board
can nominate director candidates
constituting up to 20% of the Board
in the company’s annual meeting
proxy materials.
7 Board Dialogue and Decision Added four highly qualified
directors in the past five years
40 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
2
Board Structure
Board Leadership
Currently, our Board leadership structure consists of an independent Lead Director, a Chair (who is also our CEO) and
independent committee chairs. The Board believes that this structure provides strong Board leadership and engagement
while providing the benefit of having our CEO, the individual with primary responsibility for managing the company’s day-
to-day operations, chair regular Board meetings as key business and strategic issues are discussed.
The Board regularly reviews its leadership structure and thoroughly evaluates whether to combine or to split the chair
and CEO roles. In doing so, the independent directors consider the recommendation of the nominating, governance and
social responsibility committee, the current circumstances at Allstate, skills and experience of the individuals involved and
leadership composition of the Board. Thus, the Board retains flexibility to choose its optimal leadership structure depending
upon Allstate’s particular needs and circumstances and to organize its functions and conduct its business in the most
effective manner.
The independent directors have determined Allstate is well served by having Mr. Wilson hold the roles of Chair and CEO.
Mr. Wilson has more than 29 years of insurance industry experience, has extensive company knowledge, has demonstrated
successful leadership of external boards and provides excellent leadership for both management and the Board. He is
highly qualified to lead discussions of the Board and is in the best position to facilitate the flow of business information and
communications between the Board and management. This promotes better alignment of Allstate’s long-term strategic
priorities with its operational execution. The Board has strong independent oversight through Allstate’s independent Lead
Director and 12 independent directors.
Structure of the Board and Its Committees
Allstate’s Chair and CEO provides excellent leadership and direction for both management and the Board. The independent
Lead Director is empowered with, and exercises, robust, well-defined duties. The Board is composed of experienced and
committed independent directors that provide objective independent Board leadership and effectively engage and oversee
management. The Board committees have objective, experienced chairs and members.
Chair of the Board
Purpose: Serves as the primary voice to articulate Allstate’s long-term strategic priorities, performance and operating results,
as well as ensures management is providing the proper information and analysis to the Board to facilitate effective oversight.
Significant dialogue with stakeholders on governance, strategy and operating performance facilitates Board effectiveness.
Independent Lead Director
Purpose: Collaborates with Chair/CEO on Board meeting agendas, effectiveness, planning matters and other related topics of
management oversight. Participates in shareholder engagement. Serves as a liaison between the Chair and the independent
directors to provide a supplemental channel of communication.
Board of Directors
Purpose: Provides objective oversight of management, reviews the CEO’s performance and succession planning and approves CEO
compensation. Oversees Allstate’s strategy, operating performance and sustainable value creation.
Compensation and Nominating, Governance and
Audit Committee Risk and Return Committee
Human Capital Committee Social Responsibility Committee
Purpose: Assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities related to the topics described in the committee descriptions below and as
may be delegated by the Board from time to time.
Executive Committee
The Board has an Executive Committee made up of the Lead Director, committee chairs and Board Chair. The Executive Committee
is chaired by Mr. Wilson and has the powers of the Board in the management of Allstate’s business affairs to the extent permitted
under the bylaws, excluding any powers granted by the Board to any other committee of the Board. In addition, the Executive
Committee provides Board oversight if outside the scope of established committees or if an accelerated process is necessary. No
meetings of the Executive Committee were necessary in 2023.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 412024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Independent
Lead Director
Gregg Sherrill
Allstate’s Board believes that a
Current Lead Director
strong Lead Director role with
clearly defined responsibilities
provides effective independent
Mr. Sherrill was named independent Lead Director in May 2021. As a director at Allstate since 2017, Mr. Sherrill
management oversight. A
strong Lead Director role has served on the audit and nominating, governance and social responsibility committees. During his tenure
has been in place for over on Allstate’s Board, he has cultivated an expansive knowledge of Allstate through business growth, strategic
thirteen years and the advances, operational and organizational changes and an evolving external environment. His leadership, knowledge
roles and responsibilities and experience balances the perspectives of both the longer-tenured Board members and newer directors.
have been enhanced over
time based on review of Considerations in Selecting Current Lead Director
the role and shareholder
The independent directors consider several factors, including the director’s corporate governance expertise,
feedback. Allstate’s Corporate
operational and leadership experience, board service and tenure, integrity and ability to meet the required time
Governance Guidelines
commitment. It is preferable that the Lead Director hold a previous position as chair of a board committee, either
describe the responsibilities
of the Lead Director and the at Allstate or another company. In 2021, Mr. Sherrill was chosen by the independent directors as he exemplified
selection process, including these characteristics. He has significant board leadership experience, including as former chairman of Tenneco and
the characteristics that the former chair of the organization and executive compensation committee of Snap-On. The independent directors
Board considers important in a believe that Mr. Sherrill is exceptionally well-qualified to serve as Allstate’s independent lead director.
Lead Director.
Q&A with Allstate’s independent Lead Director
The Lead Director is elected
annually by the independent Q: What do you most appreciate about Allstate’s Board culture?
directors, and it is expected
that the Lead Director serve A: “I appreciate my fellow directors’ collegial and respectful dialogue. They are always willing to appropriately
three to five years. challenge the status quo in a constructive manner.”
Q: What do you believe were the Board’s biggest accomplishments in 2023?
A: “We successfully oversaw the company’s profit improvement plan, which generated positive results for the last
quarter of 2023.”
Q: What have you found most beneficial about meeting with Allstate’s shareholders?
A: “Shareholders are sincerely interested in Allstate. There is a lot to be gained through open and frequent dialogue
and we have incorporated many shareholder suggestions into our practices over the years.”
Duties and Responsibilities
INDEPENDENT LEAD DIRECTOR
Board Meetings and Executive Sessions Communication Between Chair and Independent Directors
• Has the authority to call meetings of the independent directors • Serves as liaison between the Chair and independent directors
• Approves meeting agendas and schedules and information sent to the • Consults with the Chair and discusses items raised in executive sessions
Board to ensure there is sufficient time for discussion of all items and
that directors have the information necessary to perform their duties Communication with Shareholders
• Chairs executive sessions of independent directors at every • Communicates with significant shareholders and other stakeholders
Board meeting on matters involving broad corporate policies and practices, when
appropriate
• Presides at all Board meetings when the Chair is not present
Committee Involvement
Duties to the Board
• Works with the Chair and committee chairs to ensure coordinated
• Has regular communications with the CEO about Allstate’s strategy
coverage of Board responsibilities and ensures effective functioning
and performance
of all committees
• Performs additional duties designated by the independent directors
• Ensures the implementation of a committee self-evaluation process
CEO Performance Evaluation and regular committee reports to the Board
• Facilitates and communicates the Board’s performance evaluation Board and Individual Director Evaluations
of the Chair and CEO with the chair of the compensation and
• Participates in the evaluation of individual director, Board and
human capital committee
committee performance with the chair of the nominating,
Succession Plans governance and social responsibility committee and the Chair
• Facilitates the development of a succession plan for the Chair and CEO
42 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.comDirector Attendance
2024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
The Allstate Corporation Board of Directors
Meetings in 2023: 7
• The company’s progress on the Transformative Growth strategy and execution
of profit improvement plan was discussed at every Board meeting, including
three days in October to focus on strategy.
Gregg Sherrill, Thomas J. • The Board discussed Allstate’s environmental, social and governance strategy
Independent Wilson, and progress at multiple meetings, including climate strategy.
Lead Director Chair • Succession planning and leadership development were each discussed at
multiple meetings.
“This past year, the Board
spent considerable time
Robust Role for Independent Committee Chairs
reviewing Allstate’s strategy
to increase shareholder value Each of the committee chairs approves meeting agendas and reviews
by improving profitability and committee materials. Prior to each meeting, each committee chair has a
progress on Transformative conversation with the Board Chair and CEO and relevant operating executives.
Growth initiatives. We The committee chairs discuss meeting materials and agendas in advance of
reviewed CEO succession each meeting, which fosters independence and successful execution of each
planning and key leadership committee’s responsibilities.
development and received
Highly Independent Board
updates on the company’s
inclusive diversity and equity Twelve out of thirteen directors on the Board are independent. Each director
strategy. We also added a has input into Board and committee meeting schedules, agendas and materials.
Board member who brings In addition, directors are provided opportunities throughout the year for
valuable industry and independent discussion and reflection. The directors hold executive sessions
strategic experience, which without management present at every regular Board and committee meeting.
further complements the
Management Participation in Board Meetings
Board’s robust capabilities
Key members of management regularly attend and participate in Board
and diversity of thought.”
meetings. Regular attendees include the CEO, CFO, chief legal officer and
— Gregg M. Sherrill,
general counsel, presidents of Investments and Corporate Strategy, Protection
Independent Lead Director
Products and Enterprise Services, and Property-Liability and chief risk officer.
Other senior leaders attend as meeting topics warrant. In addition, senior
leadership also participates in committee meetings.
Board Attendance
99%
Directors are expected to attend Board and committee meetings
and the annual meeting of shareholders. During 2023, each
director attended at least 75% of the combined Board meetings Average attendance of directors as
and meetings of committees of which he or she was a member. a group at Board and committee
All of the directors who stood for election at the 2023 annual meetings during 2023
meeting of shareholders attended the annual meeting.
Use of Independent Advisors and Experts
Each committee operates under a written charter and has the ability to hire third-party advisors. Outside experts such
as independent auditors, compensation consultants, governance specialists, cybersecurity experts, board search firm
representatives and financial advisors attend meetings to provide directors with additional information on issues.
In 2023, outside firms were engaged to provide independent assessments of Allstate’s compensation
practices, financial results, Board composition, shareholder activism, diversity and pay equity practices and
cybersecurity program.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 432024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
A
All members have risk management experience 5
0 20 40 60 80 100
Audit All members have accounting and finance experience 5
0 20 40 60 80 100
Committee
All members have technology and cybersecurity experience 5
Report, pg. 110 0 20 40 60 80 100
All members have complex, highly regulated business experience 5
Meetings in 2023: 8
0 20 40 60 80 100
All members have innovation and customer service experience 5
0 20 40 60 80 100
Three members have financial services experience 3
Chair: Kermit R.
Key Responsibilities:
Crawford
• Oversees integrity of financial statements and other financial information and disclosures
Other Members:
Donald E. Brown • Oversees internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures
Siddharth N. Mehta • Reviews the enterprise risk control assessment and guidelines, including cybersecurity and
Jacques Perold data privacy risk and the major financial risk exposures and management’s steps to monitor
Monica Turner and control those risks
• Oversees the ethics and compliance program and compliance with legal and regulatory
“In 2023, we spent requirements
considerable time
• Appoints, retains and oversees the independent registered public accountant and evaluates its
discussing Allstate’s qualifications, performance and independence
profit improvement • Evaluates performance of independent cybersecurity advisor annually
strategy and results
• Oversees Allstate’s internal audit function
and Property-
• Oversees Allstate’s data privacy programs
Liability reserving.
• Has authority to engage independent counsel and other advisors to carry out its duties
We reviewed a model
risk management
and governance Management Participation in Committee Meetings
framework.
The CFO, chief audit executive, chief compliance executive, chief risk officer, CEO, chief legal
Technology and
officer and general counsel, and chief accounting officer and controller all actively participate
cybersecurity
in meetings. Senior business unit and technology executives, including the chief information
remained focus areas
security officer, are present when appropriate. Executive sessions of the committee, in
and we engaged
which the committee meets privately with the independent registered public accountant,
an independent
independent cybersecurity advisor, chief audit executive and chief compliance executive, are
cybersecurity advisor
held at all regular meetings.
for the eighth year in
a row.”
Independence and Audit Committee Financial Expert
— Kermit R. Crawford,
The Board determined that all members of the audit committee are independent under
Chair
the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) and Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
requirements, and that Messrs. Brown and Mehta are each an audit committee financial
expert as defined under SEC rules.
44 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
C
All members have risk management experience 5
Compensation All members have sustainability experience 5
and Human All members have succession planning and human capital
5
Capital management experience
Committee Four members have financial services experience 4
Meetings in 2023: 8
Four members have accounting and finance experience 4
Four members have complex, highly regulated business experience 4
Key Responsibilities:
Chair: Perry M.
Traquina • Oversees Allstate’s executive compensation plans
• Selects and retains the committee’s independent compensation consultant
Other Members:
Richard T. Hume • Assists the Board in determining all compensation elements of the executive officers, including
Margaret M. Keane the CEO
Andrea Redmond • Reviews management succession plans, evaluation processes and organizational strength
Judith A. Sprieser
• Conducts an annual review of the company’s human capital management practices,
organizational health, employee and agent survey data, company culture, diversity and
“We discussed
inclusiveness and pay equity
senior leadership
• Reviews CEO’s performance in light of approved goals and objectives
succession planning
• Reviews the Compensation Discussion and Analysis and prepares the Compensation
and development at
Committee Report in this proxy statement
multiple meetings.
We reviewed
organizational health, Management Participation in Committee Meetings
which included
The chief human resources officer, vice president of executive compensation, chief legal
updates on talent
officer and general counsel, CFO and CEO participate in meetings. The committee regularly
retention, distributed
meets in executive sessions with the independent compensation consultant and chief human
work, employee
resources officer.
engagement and
inclusive diversity • The chief human resources officer provides the committee with internal and external
and equity. We analyses of the structure of compensation programs. Throughout the year, the estimated
reviewed and and actual results under our incentive compensation plans are reviewed.
modified executive
• The CFO discusses financial results relevant to incentive compensation, other financial
compensation
measures and accounting rules.
plans in response
• The CEO advises on the alignment of incentive plan performance measures with
to shareholder
strategy and the design of equity incentive awards. He also provides the committee
feedback and once
with performance evaluations of senior executives and recommends merit increases and
again received
compensation awards.
an independent
assessment of • The chief legal officer and general counsel provides input on the legal and regulatory
pay equity.” environment and corporate governance best practices and ensures the proxy materials
accurately reflect the committee’s actions.
— Perry M. Traquina,
• The chief risk officer reports annually on compensation plan alignment with Board-
Chair
approved risk and return principles and whether compensation outcomes were achieved
within those principles.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 452024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
N
All members have risk management experience 5
Nominating, All members have sustainability experience 5
Governance All members have succession planning and human capital
5
and Social management experience
Responsibility All members have innovation and customer service experience 5
Committee
All members have government, public policy and regulatory
5
Meetings in 2023: 5 affairs experience
Three members have global perspective experience 3
Key Responsibilities:
• Recommends candidates for Board election and nominees for Board committees
Chair: Andrea Redmond
• Recommends candidates for Lead Director and Chair
Other Members:
• Recommends criteria for selecting directors and the Lead Director and determines
Donald E. Brown
director independence
Margaret M. Keane
Gregg M. Sherrill • Reviews Allstate’s governance documents annually and approves changes as appropriate
Monica Turner • Advises the Board on corporate governance issues and practices and monitors
governance landscape
“The committee
• Determines performance criteria and oversees the performance assessment of the Board,
was engaged on Board committees and Lead Director
governance topics • Reviews Allstate’s non-employee director compensation program
important to Allstate’s
• Has authority to retain a director search firm and director compensation consultant
shareholders. We
• Reviews priorities and reporting related to Allstate’s sustainability activities, including public
continued to focus policy, political contributions and climate resilience
on key sustainability
priorities including
climate strategy and Management Participation in Committee Meetings
political activity. We The CEO and chief legal officer and general counsel participate in meetings. The committee
considered Board regularly meets in executive session without management present. The chief risk officer
composition and provides risk assessments on political contributions and activities. The chief legal officer
recommended a new and general counsel and chief sustainability officer provide updates to the committee on
director who brings progress on sustainability priorities.
industry experience
to further support
oversight of the
business and also
reviewed results from
Board, committee and
individual directors
evaluations.”
— Andrea Redmond,
Chair
46 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
R
All members have risk management experience 6
Risk and Return All members have sustainability experience 6
0 20 40 60 80 100
Committee
All members have accounting and finance experience 6
Meetings in 2023: 6 0 20 40 60 80 100
Five members have technology and cybersecurity experience 5
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
Five members have complex, highly regulated business experience 5
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
Four members have financial services experience 4
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
Chair: Siddharth
N. Mehta
Key Responsibilities:
Other Members:
Kermit R. Crawford • Oversees the effectiveness of Allstate’s enterprise risk and return management (“ERRM”)
Richard T. Hume framework, governance structure and risk-related decision making, while focusing on the
Jacques Perold company’s overall risk profile
Judith A. Sprieser • Supports the Board and audit committee in oversight of risk and return governance, risk
Perry M. Traquina assessment and risk and return policies
• Reviews and evaluates key strategic, insurance, investment, financial, operational and cultural
“In 2023, we reviewed risks, with periodic assessment of special topics
risk and return of • Reviews risk and return processes, policies and guidelines used by management to evaluate,
the strategic plan, monitor and manage enterprise risk and return
including risks related • Reviews Allstate’s ERRM function, including its performance, organization, budgeting
to capital framework, and staffing
investment portfolio • Evaluates the chief risk officer’s assessment of strategic and operating plans
diversification, • Reviews the risk factors included in the Form 10-K and the regulatory Own Risk and Solvency
catastrophe loss Assessment report
trends and delivery • Reviews extremely low frequency high severity scenarios (“ELFS”) on an annual basis, including
of Affordable, Simple, a periodic review of ELFS related to climate and weather-related risks
Connected products. • The audit committee chair is a risk and return committee member to enhance cross-committee
We discussed communication
initiatives to mitigate
operational and
Management Participation in Committee Meetings
climate risks to the
The chief risk officer, CFO, CEO, chief legal officer and general counsel, and chief audit executive
enterprise.”
participate in meetings. The committee regularly meets in executive session, including sessions with the
— Siddharth N. Mehta, chief risk officer.
Chair
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 47Corporate Governance
2024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
3
Engaged Oversight
Allstate’s Board brings the right skills, expertise and experience to effectively
oversee the business, including the company’s significant risk and return priorities.
Key Areas of Risk Oversight
The Board has primary responsibility for risk oversight
and the Board committees assist the Board in
fulfilling its oversight of the company’s risk and return
management structure and governance. Risks are
Risk and Return Ethics and
Strategy regularly identified, measured, managed and reported
Management Compliance and risk and return perspectives are shared with
the Board across six risk types: financial, insurance,
investment, operational, strategic execution and culture.
The chief risk officer’s assessment of Allstate’s
current risk position and alignment with risk and return
principles is reviewed throughout the year, including
risks associated with risk and return management
Operating
Human Capital structure, ethics and compliance, strategy, operating
and Financial Cybersecurity
performance, human capital management, cybersecurity,
Management
Performance political engagement, sustainability (including climate)
and compensation.
See page 49 for additional detailed information
about governance and oversight of risk
management.
What’s New
Political
Sustainability Compensation In 2023, the Board reviewed correlation risks
Engagement
and enterprise diversification, which results
from the company’s highly diversified mix of
business and investment activities.
Risks are regularly identified, measured, managed and reported and risk and return perspectives are shared with the
Board across six risk types:
Financial Insurance Investment
Operational Strategic Execution Culture
48 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Risk and Return Management
Risk and Return Management Oversight
The Board oversees Enterprise Risk and Return Management (“ERRM”), including management’s design and
implementation of ERRM practices. ERRM applies risk-return principles, modeling and analytics, governance and
transparent management dialogue to understand the company’s highest-priority risks. The chief risk officer’s assessment
of Allstate’s current risk position and alignment with risk and return principles is reviewed throughout the year, including
reviews of compensation programs and political engagement. Significant risks, including those affected by climate change,
financial markets, cybersecurity and privacy threats, are regularly identified, measured, managed and reported.
Enterprise Risk and Return Management Governance
ERRM governance includes Board oversight, an executive management committee and chief risk officers that oversee
various areas of Allstate.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for oversight of Allstate’s ERRM program, including management’s
design and implementation of the ERRM framework. Oversight is supported by Board committees; see page 57.
The Enterprise Risk and Return Council (“ERRC”) directs ERRM activities by establishing risk and return targets,
determining economic capital levels and monitoring integrated strategies and actions from an enterprise risk and
return perspective. The ERRC consists of the CEO, CFO, president of Property-Liability, chief investment and strategy
officer, chief risk officer and chief legal officer and other senior leaders.
Business unit chief risk officers report into the ERRM team, fostering a culture of collaboration, efficiency and cross-
functional dialogue regarding risks and opportunities.
Various management committees work with the ERRC to direct ERRM activities, including the Operating
Committee, the Operational Risk and Return Council, the Information Security Council, the Internal Compliance and
Control Committee, the ESG Steering Committee, liability governance committees, and investment committees.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 492024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Ethics and Compliance
FULL BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE
GLOBAL CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT
Allstate’s Global Code of Business Conduct (the “Code”) declares who
In 2023, Allstate was recognized by
we are and what we stand for. It underscores a commitment to doing
Ethisphere as one of the World’s
business legally and ethically. This Code provides the framework for the
Most Ethical Companies for the
decisions we make and the actions we take every day. The commitment
10th year
to doing the right thing strengthens our business by making us more
reliable, resilient and responsive to those we serve.
in a row.
The Code applies to all employees, officers and internal and external directors
of Allstate. Annual compliance training and affirmation is required. The audit
committee is responsible for periodic review, assessment and approval of
changes to the Code. The audit committee also oversees Allstate’s ethics
and compliance program. At least semi-annually, the committee reviews
and discusses with the chief compliance executive a report describing
the company’s ethics and compliance program and its effectiveness. This
includes any ethics and compliance matters that may have a material impact
on the company’s reputation, operations, financial condition, results of
operations, or cash flow.
Allstate’s “Speak Up” process is an important resource for providing fair, prompt and safe resolutions of concerns.
Employees may report any legal, ethical, regulatory or compliance concerns regarding employees, agents, vendors,
clients and customers through dedicated phone and website channels. Allstate does not tolerate retaliation
against anyone who raises a concern, makes a report or cooperates in an investigation.
50 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Strategy
FULL BOARD
The Board provides oversight on the development and implementation of Allstate’s strategic plans and associated
risks. The full Board oversees strategy and enterprise risk and Board committees have additional oversight of
various aspects of Allstate’s strategy.
Strategy is discussed at each regular Board meeting and presentations are provided by management on specific initiatives
and topics such as short- and long-term strategic and operational plans, capital utilization, investment returns, acquisitions
and divestitures, capital market transactions and sustainability priorities. Management reviews with the Board Allstate’s
overall corporate strategy and key strategic risks and returns, which are assessed by the chief risk officer annually.
Throughout 2023, the Board engaged on an ongoing basis with management on the execution of the profit
improvement plan, continued implementation of Transformative Growth and progress towards achieving each of the
various components of the strategic and operating plans. The Board also reviewed four “drivers of change” critical to
Allstate’s long-term business success based on their potential to drive significant change in the industry and competitive
landscape over the next five to ten years. These include artificial intelligence, climate change, personal transportation and
customer connectivity:
• Artificial Intelligence: Efficiencies gained through artificial intelligence (“AI”), including increased automation and new
ways to provide enhanced value to customers, are poised to disrupt all aspects of the insurance value chain. Allstate will
capitalize on these trends and operate as an AI-driven enterprise.
• Climate Change: Climate change is having a meaningful impact on Allstate and all of our stakeholders. Increased severe
weather, the transformation to a lower-carbon economy, and higher societal expectations of businesses have significant
implications for our future success.
• Personal Transportation: Significant trends paving the way for the future of personal transportation encompass the
expansion of autonomous vehicles, a departure from internal combustion engines in favor of alternative power sources,
and the continuous evolution of consumer preferences towards shared mobility and sustainability.
• Customer Connectivity: The ways in which people connect with each other are changing at an accelerated rate. How
Allstate connects with customers and their data is of growing importance. New technologies support continuous,
ambient connectivity which enables Allstate to form deep, direct engagement with customers.
Operating and Financial Performance
FULL BOARD
Reviewing management’s execution against Allstate’s operating and capital plans provides oversight of operating
performance and financial condition. This business, operations and capital update is presented at each regularly
scheduled Board meeting. Financial results are reviewed by management and compared to the operating plan and specific
enterprise objectives to provide insight into operating performance. The review includes assessment of risks related to
changing consumer preferences, current economic and capital market conditions, volatility of loss cost trends, the impact
of catastrophes and severe weather, evolving technologies and execution of the Transformative Growth plan. The Board
reviews and engages in robust discussions on Allstate’s business and operating performance at every meeting. The
Board also receives monthly financial updates from the chief financial officer.
Management also reviews capital deployment options, regulatory capital levels and any changes in rating agency
financial strength or credit ratings at each meeting. Capital position is evaluated against the economic capital model
that is integrated with Allstate’s ERRM program providing robust Board oversight of financial condition. The audit
committee assists the Board in the oversight of the financial statements and internal control framework.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 51Succession Planning
2024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Human Capital Management
FULL BOARD COMPENSATION AND HUMAN CAPITAL COMMITTEE
The Board engages in an ongoing review of human capital management practices since they are vital to Allstate’s
continued success. This includes overall organizational health and practices, such as recruitment, development and
retention as well as progress against the company’s inclusive diversity and equity (“IDE”) strategy and goals.
BOARD ROLE IN REVIEWING CULTURE
At Allstate, we believe that a purpose driven company must be powered by purpose driven people.
Culture is defined as a self-sustaining system of shared values, priorities and principles that shape beliefs, drive behaviors and
influence decision making within an organization.
The Board reviews organizational health annually. At Allstate, we are focusing on how we recruit, retain, develop and engage employees.
Organizational culture is included as a key risk category and is monitored and measured by management’s ERRM framework and overseen
by the Board. This “tone at the top” message ensures that management is held accountable for its implementation and maintenance of
high ethical standards and protecting Allstate’s reputation, assets and business.
BOARD ROLE IN SUCCESSION PLANNING
The Board’s involvement in leadership development and succession planning is systematic and ongoing. Management succession was
discussed multiple times in 2023 during compensation and human capital committee meetings, Board meetings and executive sessions.
Discussions cover CEO and senior leadership succession planning and development plans. The Board also has regular and direct exposure
to senior leadership and high-potential officers in meetings held throughout the year.
SUCCESSION PLANNING REVIEW CYCLE
APRIL CEO Succession JULY Organizational Health
Topic: CEO succession planning Topic: Organizational health – how Allstate recruits, develops
and retains people, including its IDE commitments
Primary Focus: Internal succession alternatives are evaluated
under different strategic and operating scenarios across multiple Primary Focus: Syste matic approach to talent acquisition,
time periods – immediate, less than 2 years and 3-5 years development and retention
NOVEMBER Scenario Planning SEPTEMBER Key Leader Succession
Topic: CEO and senior leadership scenario succession planning Topic: Senior leadership succession alternatives
Primary Focus: Board dialogue and planning in the event of Primary Focus: Key leader development and retention
unexpected succession issues
INCLUSIVE DIVERSITY AND EQUITY
IDE is a core value in Allstate’s Our Shared Purpose. In furtherance of the goal to be a differentiated IDE leader, Allstate launched a
multi-year IDE strategy that is overseen by the Board. The Board reviewed IDE topics at multiple meetings in 2023, including a
presentation by an outside speaker on inclusivity, contributing to effective oversight of this important initiative.
Pay Equity Analysis
% For the fifth year in a row, Allstate engaged an outside firm to provide a detailed pay equity analysis to identify potential pay
gaps across substantially similar employee groups and identify policies, practices or systematic issues that may contribute to
pay gaps now or over time.
% The external analysis found that Allstate’s results compare well to benchmarks for companies of similar size and scope. In the few
employee groups where pay gaps were identified, these gaps were remediated and policies were established to ensure pay equity
continues in the future.
52 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Cybersecurity
FULL BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Board focuses on Allstate’s security and data privacy programs,
recognizing that the quality and functionality of these programs affect Cybersecurity Governance
reputation and customer trust. Allstate’s strategy focuses on protecting Best Practices
customer data. % Independent cybersecurity
advisor retained by audit
Accordingly, the Board prioritizes its responsibility to oversee data
committee to provide objective
protection efforts, including policies and systems designed to prevent and, if
assessments of Allstate’s
necessary, respond to cyber threats. The Board also oversees the company’s
capabilities, conduct advanced
information security program, which is designed to protect and preserve the
incident and crisis simulations
confidentiality, integrity and continued availability of all information owned
and prepare leaders to respond
by, or in the care of, the company. This program includes a cyber incident
to a cyber incident
response plan that provides controls and procedures for timely and accurate
reporting of any material cybersecurity incident. Allstate is continually % Audit committee charter
specifies data privacy and
enhancing information security capabilities in order to help protect
cybersecurity oversight
against emerging threats, detect system compromise and recover system
functionality should a cyber attack or unauthorized access occur. % Cross-functional approach to
overseeing and addressing
Allstate’s internal audit function regularly reviews and tests the
cybersecurity risk, with input
cybersecurity program and provides status reports to the audit committee
from technology, risk, legal and
and the full Board quarterly, or as needed. This reporting generally includes
audit functions
a cybersecurity dashboard that contains information on cybersecurity
governance processes, the status of projects to strengthen internal
cybersecurity, ongoing prevention and mitigation efforts, security features
of the products and services we provide our customers and the results of
security incident simulations. The audit committee receives semi-annual
reports from its independent cybersecurity advisor.
Spotlight on Cybersecurity Risk Management
Cybersecurity is a shared responsibility. All employees are expected to be vigilant in helping to protect the company,
customer data and themselves, at all times. Allstate’s independent cybersecurity advisor routinely performs
simulations and tabletop exercises to help strengthen our cybersecurity protection and information security
procedures and safeguards. All employees are required to complete annual cybersecurity awareness training and
have continuous access to cybersecurity educational opportunities throughout the year.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 532024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Political Engagement
NOMINATING, GOVERNANCE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE
Allstate engages in public policy advocacy at the state and federal levels to foster market innovation, protect
consumers, promote safety and security, ensure a healthy regulatory system and promote fiscal responsibility.
Allstate is regulated in all 50 states and the District of Columbia and at the U.S. and Canadian federal level on many aspects
of its business, including insurance pricing, claims practices, customer communications, privacy, litigation, sales practices,
underwriting standards, investments and capital. As a result, Allstate must engage in public policy issues to achieve Our
Shared Purpose, to serve customers and generate returns for shareholders.
Allstate participates in political activities through direct and indirect advocacy, corporate political contributions and
Allstate’s political action committee. Allstate contributes less than $1,000,000 annually in corporate funds directly to
political organizations, including federal, state and local candidates and committees, in comparison to total revenues of
$57.1 billion (less than 0.002% of total revenue). The types of expenditures are consistent from year to year.
The chief risk officer conducts an annual risk and return assessment of Allstate’s political activities for the Board to
ensure there is appropriate oversight and management of corporate political engagement. In addition, the Board’s
nominating, governance and social responsibility committee provides oversight of Allstate’s political contributions
and activities, including in a joint session with the Board.
Chief Risk Officer’s Assessment
The chief risk officer’s assessment approach is based on Principles and Guidance for Responsible Corporate Political
Engagement published by Transparency International UK. The political activities and associated risks identified by
Transparency International UK were expanded to address Allstate’s specific activities and risk profile. These political
activities were grouped for assessment as follows: i) political expenditures, ii) lobbying, iii) trade associations, social
welfare groups and research organizations, iv) state-based regulatory and legislation management, v) political
activities in the workplace and vi) disclosure.
The chief risk officer’s assessment concluded the following:
1. Strong governance is in place to provide transparency and promote dialogue around advocacy priorities
and initiatives
2. Allstate’s political engagement risk profile and control framework remain stable versus prior year
3. Reputation risk remains moderate and while numerous controls exist to limit exposure, a single candidate
or organization could create negative publicity and market perception
4. Lack of engagement would increase the likelihood of unfavorable legislation and policies, resulting in
adverse business outcomes
54 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Sustainability
FULL BOARD RISK AND RETURN COMMITTEE
Sustainability matters are fundamentally connected to Allstate’s business strategies and topics are prioritized
based on their alignment to Our Shared Purpose, Transformative Growth and long-term enterprise value creation.
Climate change is one of the most critical challenges today as it threatens customers, businesses and communities.
In addition to developing products and services that address climate change and the transition to a lower-carbon future,
senior management works with the Board to identify, measure, manage and monitor climate risks, including those
presented by severe weather, increased natural catastrophes, related policy shifts and the development of new technology.
Allstate’s business viability depends on effectively modeling, pricing and managing climate-related risks, as well as meeting
customer needs that result from a changing climate and a changing society. Climate risks are managed within our ERRM
framework and evaluated across six key categories: strategic execution, insurance, financial, investment, operational and
cultural risk. The Board regularly heard from Allstate’s chief risk officer about climate change risks and reviewed climate risk
at two meetings in 2023.
Climate Risk Management
Climate risks are managed within Allstate’s integrated ERRM framework, which applies risk-return principles,
modeling and analytics, governance and transparent dialogue to understand the company’s highest-priority risks.
RISK IDENTIFICATION
• Insurance risk: An increase in severe weather events has increased customers’ potential homeowners losses,
requiring risk management actions such as changes in pricing, product coverages, geography, underwriting
practices and reinsurance utilization.
• Investment risk: Allstate’s investment process reflects some of the same climate risk considerations as the
company’s insurance underwriting process. Potential environmental and severe weather risks are considered when
making investments and limiting exposure to sectors with higher climate risk. Sustainability considerations and
climate-specific metrics are included in asset management decisions.
• Reputational risk: Climate change is important to customers and other key stakeholders, and we collaborate
through external partnerships and public engagements.
RISK ASSESSMENTS
• Allstate’s Catastrophe Modeling and Analytics team and pricing groups assess climate change information and
establish pricing, underwriting, concentration and coverage standards that are responsive to climate and severe
weather risks. The team uses information from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (“IPCC”), the
U.S. Global Change Research Program (“USGCRP”) and the ACI, all of which conduct robust reviews and provide
objective measures to provide decision makers with balanced information.
• The Responsible Investing Committee and the Investments Risk Committee assess investments for potential
short- and long- term exposures to climate change.
RISK MITIGATION
• The Actuaries Climate Index (“ACI”) measures extreme weather and sea level increases through quarterly updates.
The Catastrophe Modeling and Analytics team monitors state-specific risks and competitors’ actions and partners
with the Investments team to model mortgage and real estate portfolios. The outcome of the assessment are
incorporated into decision-making to balance risk and return.
RISK MONITORING AND REPORTING
• Through Sustainability, Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”) and CDP (formerly the
Carbon Disclosure Project) reports, Allstate discloses progress in mitigating climate change. We also continue to
apply emerging data science to risk assessment, including exploring partnerships with startups that specialize in
forward-looking climate modeling. Allstate publicly disclosed targets to reduce Scope 1 and 2 emissions and will
establish a target for Scope 3 emissions by 2025.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 552024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Compensation
COMPENSATION AND HUMAN CAPITAL COMMITTEE
Compensation policies and practices reward employees for successfully executing the company’s strategies and
annual operating plan while adhering to risk and return principles.
The compensation and human capital committee concluded the compensation plans are structured to ensure
management does not take unnecessary or excessive risk based on assessments from the committee’s independent
advisor and the chief risk officer. Allstate’s compensation policies ensure balance of risk and return, while minimizing
risks that could have a material adverse effect on Allstate.
BOARD ROLE IN SETTING COMPENSATION
The compensation and human capital committee makes recommendations to the Board on compensation for the CEO and
executive officers and the structure of plans used for executive officers. The compensation and human capital committee
reviews the executive compensation program throughout the year with the assistance of an independent compensation
consultant, Pay Governance. Pay Governance’s responsibilities include:
• benchmarking Allstate’s plans and compensation relative to the market
• factoring shareholder feedback on compensation into plan structure
• evaluating changes to the executive compensation program
• assessing Allstate’s executive compensation design, peer group selection, relative pay for performance and total direct
compensation for individual senior executive positions
• providing the nominating, governance and social responsibility committee with competitive information on director
compensation
The compensation and human capital committee annually evaluates the compensation consultant’s performance
and independence.
The compensation and human capital committee grants all equity awards to individuals designated as executive officers
for purposes of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or covered employees as defined in Internal Revenue
Code Section 162(m). The compensation and human capital committee has authority to grant equity awards to eligible
employees in accordance with the terms of our 2019 Equity Incentive Plan. The Board has delegated limited authority
to the CEO and the chief human resources officer to grant equity awards to non-executive officers. All awards granted
between compensation and human capital committee meetings are reported at the next meeting.
• Compensation plans align annual and long-term incentives with short- and long-term business goals. No one, regardless
of eligibility, is guaranteed an award under the annual cash incentive program.
• Multiple performance measures are utilized that correlate with shareholder value creation and diversify the risk
associated with any single performance indicator.
• Equity awards and annual cash incentive awards are subject to a clawback policy, which provides for the recovery of
certain equity awards and annual cash incentive awards to executive officers and other executive vice presidents. If
performance results are later subject to a downward adjustment as a result of a financial restatement due to material
noncompliance with financial reporting requirements, then the paid awards are recalculated with revised results with the
compensation overpayment subject to clawback. The clawback policy also provides for recovery of equity and annual
cash incentive awards in certain circumstances if an executive is terminated for improper conduct that leads to a material
adverse impact on the reputation of, or a material adverse economic consequence for, the company.
56 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.comRisk Areas Overseen by Board Committee
2024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Comprehensive Risk Oversight
The key risk areas overseen by each Board committee are included below.
Board of Directors Overall accountability of Allstate’s enterprise risk and return management; reviews at least twice a year
Compensation and Nominating, Governance
Risk and Return
Audit Committee Human Capital and Social Responsibility
Committee
Committee Committee
Review Frequency Review Frequency Review Frequency Review Frequency
• At least five times annually • At least four times annually • At least once annually • As needed
Key Areas of Focus Key Areas of Focus Key Areas of Focus Key Areas of Focus
• ERRM framework, • Internal controls over • Executive compensation • Director elections
governance structure financial reporting and programs (design, and corporate
and risk-related disclosure controls performance measures governance practices
decision making and procedures and ranges in incentive • Board composition, skills
• Risk and return • External reporting plans), including review and experiences
governance, risk • Effectiveness of ethics of the chief risk officer’s • Political contributions
assessment and risk and and compliance program assessment of incentive and public policy
return policies and reporting compensation programs activities, including
• Strategic, insurance, • Independence and • Transformative Growth review of the chief risk
investment, financial, performance of the and IDE strategy, officer’s assessment of
operational and company’s registered including impact on political activities
cultural risks public accounting firm annual incentive program • Sustainability strategy,
• Risk and return processes, • Cybersecurity risk • Talent development progress and reporting
policies and guidelines initiatives, policies and senior executive
succession planning
• ERRM function, and procedures
capabilities and staffing • Human capital
management, including
• Strategic and
IDE, recruitment,
operating plans
leadership and
• External reporting development, turnover,
• Extremely low frequency retention, organizational
high severity scenarios health and pay equity
• Organizational
transformation strategy
Reports From Reports From Reports From Reports From
• Chief risk officer • Chief risk officer • Independent • External governance
• Chief financial officer • Chief financial officer compensation consultant advisor
• Chief audit executive • Chief audit executive • Chief human • Chief sustainability officer
• Other internal subject • Chief compliance officer resources officer • Chief risk officer
matter experts • Chief information • Chief risk officer • Other internal subject
security officer • Other outside experts matter experts
• External, independent and speakers
cybersecurity advisor
• Independent registered
accountant
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 572024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Board Effectiveness 4
The foundation of an effective Board is having a diverse set of talented leaders who collaborate to
constructively challenge and oversee management. The Board evaluates its effectiveness through
multiple lenses and uses evaluations to continually improve its governance practices.
Evaluating Board Effectiveness
Allstate’s Board evaluation process includes multiple assessments and reviews performed throughout the year. This
process ensures that the Board’s governance and oversight responsibilities are updated to reflect best practices and are
well executed. These evaluations include discussions after every meeting, an annual Board assessment, annual committee
assessments and individual director evaluations.
Based on the Board’s annual evaluation process, the nominating, governance and social responsibility committee reviews
feedback and establishes action items for the upcoming year. Results of individual director evaluations are used in the
annual nomination process and specific action items are discussed with each director.
Board Evaluation Process
Allstate’s Board evaluation process includes discussions after every meeting, an annual Board assessment, annual
committee assessments and individual director evaluations.
BOARD
1 Evaluation at every • Measures effectiveness of Board oversight
regular meeting • Ensures meeting objectives were satisfied, all agenda
items sufficiently considered and information presented
Performed by: Independent Directors was complete, understandable and organized
• Identifies issues that need additional dialogue
2 Annual evaluation • Ensures Board and committees are functioning effectively
• Results reviewed by nominating, governance and
Performed by: Board, Committee Chairs social responsibility committee and summarized for full
and Lead Director Board; recommendations for improvement are reviewed
and implemented
3 Biennial review of responsibilities • Ensures all necessary issues were considered to fulfill Board
and committee responsibilities
and time allocation
• Adjustments made to future agendas and timelines
Performed by: Board and Committees
INDIVIDUAL DIRECTORS
1 Annual Evaluation • Review contributions and performance in light of Allstate’s
business and strategies and confirm continued independence
Performed by: Lead Director, nominating, • Feedback provided to each director
governance and social responsibility • Discuss each director’s future plans for continued Board service
committee chair and Board Chair
2 Change in circumstances • Determine appropriateness of director’s continued membership
on the Board after a change in primary employment
Performed by: Board • Review potential conflicts and whether change impacts
director’s ability to devote the necessary time and effort to
Board service
58 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
2023 Annual Evaluation Feedback and Action Items
01 Strategy and 02 Board Structure 03 Information and
Operational Oversight and Culture Resources
Directors find the three-day strategy Directors appreciate the transparency Directors appreciate the executive
session to be highly effective. in the Board room and believe the sessions at every meeting and value
dialogue appropriately challenges the candid dialogue.
Directors value the frequent
management and leads to
updates on financial results, Directors value the use of outside
effective oversight.
Transformative Growth, succession speakers on key strategic matters.
planning, cybersecurity and Directors are pleased with steps
Action Items
sustainability priorities. taken to increase diversity at
the Board level and believe the Presentations and agendas will be
Action Items current mix of skills and experience balanced to ensure adequate time for
Management will provide are appropriate. unstructured discussion.
additional “deep dives” on key
External speakers will continue to
strategic priorities. Action Items
be utilized, including for competitive
Diversity will continue to be
CEO succession planning and senior market, climate and artificial
prioritized with a facilitated
leadership development will remain intelligence topics.
Board discussion.
focus areas.
Board Re-Nomination Considerations
The Board recognizes the importance of evaluating individual directors and their contributions to the Board in connection
with re-nomination decisions. In considering whether to recommend re-nomination of a director for election, the
nominating, governance and social responsibility committee conducts a detailed review, considering several factors.
Evaluation of Board Composition
• Essential characteristics • Evolving strategy and risk and return profile • Attendance and
• Shareholder feedback • Time commitment participation
• Retirements • Board and director evaluations • Diversity
For more
How the Board Considers Each Factor information
Essential Whether the director continues to possess the core competencies and additional page 39
characteristics capabilities necessary to ensure continued success of the Board
Evolving strategy The extent to which the director’s skills, perspectives and experience (including that pages 48-49
and risk and gained due to service on the Board) continue to contribute to the effective oversight of
return profile Allstate’s business and strategic priorities
Board and Feedback received during the annual Board evaluation and discussions between pages 58-59
director each individual director and the Lead Director, nominating, governance and social
evaluations responsibility committee chair and Board Chair
Attendance and Attendance at, and participation during, Board and committee meetings page 43
participation
Diversity The extent to which the director contributes to the diversity of the Board page 40
Time Outside board and other affiliations, including overboarding considerations, time page 39
commitment commitment and potential conflicts of interest or independence concerns
Retirement Whether the director has reached the retirement age specified in Allstate’s director N/A
policy retirement policy
Shareholder Feedback received from shareholders, including support received during the most page 62
Feedback recent annual shareholder meeting
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 592024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Maintaining an Informed and Agile Board
Director Onboarding All new directors participate in a robust director orientation and onboarding process to ensure
a working knowledge of Allstate’s business, strategies, operating performance and culture
and a successful integration into boardroom discussions as soon as possible. To assist with
their development, all new directors are invited to attend all committee meetings prior to their
appointment to a particular committee.
Director The commitment of our directors extends well beyond preparation for, and participation at,
Commitment Beyond regularly scheduled Board meetings. Engagement beyond the boardroom provides our directors
the Boardroom with additional insights into Allstate’s businesses and industry.
DIRECTOR EDUCATION
Allstate encourages and facilitates director participation in continuing education programs,
and each director is given the opportunity to become a member of the National Association of
Corporate Directors.
ENGAGEMENT WITH MANAGEMENT
Directors regularly meet with senior leaders and employees below the senior leadership level.
These interactions are offered in various forums, including one-on-one meetings with senior
leaders at every board meeting and an annual dinner with 50-60 high performing officers.
INFORMAL MEETINGS
Directors also participate in informal meetings with other directors and senior leaders to
• share ideas,
• build stronger working relationships,
• gain broader perspectives, and
• strengthen their working knowledge of Allstate’s business, strategy, operating performance
and culture.
Advisors and Experts The Board and its committees engage third-party advisors and experts as needed, including to
supplement the Board’s expertise.
In 2023, outside firms were engaged to provide independent assessments of Allstate’s
compensation practices, financial results, Board composition, shareholder activism risk, pay
equity practices and cybersecurity program. For more information, see “Use of Independent
Advisors and Experts” on page 43.
60 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Board Accountability 5
Shareholder Engagement
Allstate proactively engages with significant shareholders throughout the year. Dialogue, transparency and
responsiveness are the cornerstones of our shareholder engagement program.
How We Engage
Direct engagement involves reaching out to Allstate’s largest shareholders at least three times throughout the year, before,
during and after the annual shareholder meeting. Discussion topics include strategy, operating results, compensation
programs, climate risks, Inclusive Diversity and Equity and corporate governance. Shareholder feedback is reviewed by each
relevant Board committee and considered in shaping company policies and practices. We also engage with proxy and other
investor advisory firms that represent the interests of various shareholders.
Discussions with shareholders frequently include Allstate’s Lead Director, Chair/CEO, chair of the compensation and human
capital committee and other committee chairs or directors as necessary.
In 2023, Allstate engaged with shareholders representing approximately 45% of outstanding shares and provided
opportunity for more robust dialogue and valuable feedback, which was discussed at subsequent Board and
committee meetings.
Four-Phase Engagement Cycle
BALANCED-TRANSPARENT-RESPONSIVE
JUNE-DECEMBER After Annual Meeting JANUARY-MARCH Before Annual Meeting
• Discuss responses to vote results • Discuss shareholder proposals with
and new topics of interest for the proponents, on case-by-case basis
upcoming year • Incorporate feedback from shareholder
• Discuss governance and compensation discussions into proxy statement and
issues and potential responses other disclosures
• Discuss sustainability trends and
investor expectations
MAY Annual Meeting of Shareholders APRIL-MAY During Shareholder Voting
• Shareholders vote on ballot items • Follow up on previous conversations
and discuss final Board decisions
• Provides forum for direct engagement and reasoning
among Board members, senior management
• Review vote proposals and solicit
and shareholders
support for Board recommendations
• A virtual annual meeting allows Allstate to reach a
broader base of shareholders that is not limited to
just those who can travel and provides additional
opportunities for shareholders to submit questions
before and during the meeting
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 612024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Shareholder Feedback Is Integrated Into Board Discussions and Decisions
WHAT WE HEARD DURING 2023
ENGAGEMENT WHAT WE HAVE DONE IN RESPONSE
Strategy • Allstate is successfully implementing a comprehensive auto insurance profit
Investors want to understand how external improvement plan as loss cost inflation has reduced margins. Increased
factors have affected strategy and results Board time was spent overseeing management’s actions to improve
and steps taken to improve profitability. profitability and support growth.
• The company’s progress on Transformative Growth was discussed at every
Investors except company boards and
Board meeting.
management be focused on strategies and
• A Societal Engagement Framework is used to evaluate, prepare and
most lead to sustained value creation.
communicate Allstate’s participation in issues that drive sustainable value
creation, including goals that are directly tied to our business strategy and
Our Shared Purpose.
Environmental and Social • Allstate announced its commitment to achieve net zero emissions for
Investors increasingly expect companies to Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. By the end of
develop net zero commitments and report 2025, Allstate will establish a goal for Scope 3 emissions. Progress on climate
on efforts to mitigate climate risk. goals and other climate risk mitigation efforts are included in the proxy
statement and sustainability and TCFD reports.
Investors want to understand how
• Climate strategy and risk was reviewed with the Board over
Allstate is addressing employee turnover
multiple meetings.
and encouraging employee retention
and development. • The company is using analytics to align skills to key strategic priorities,
focus talent development and deploy talent efficiently to further enable the
Transformative Growth strategy.
Compensation • The majority of Allstate’s compensation program is at-risk
Investors want to understand alignment performance based.
of compensation programs with • Beginning in 2024, the equity mix for the CEO was changed to increase
company performance. the percent of performance stock awards and reduce the percent of
stock options.
While investors are supportive of
sustainability metrics in compensation • Allstate is executing a comprehensive multi-year Inclusive Diversity and
programs, they want to ensure the metrics Equity (“IDE”) strategy to accelerate the pace of change for diversity across
include criteria that can be measured. the enterprise and an IDE component was integrated into the annual
incentive plan and includes specific, quantifiable goals that are reviewed by
the Board.
Board Composition • Four new Board members were added within the last five years, each
Investors are focused on whether companies bringing specific experience and skill sets to help oversee the key
have the right skills, experience and diversity components of Allstate’s business strategy.
on boards to advance and oversee corporate • Director skills and capabilities were reviewed during the annual evaluation
strategy and related risks. process and feedback was provided to each director.
Investors are interested in how the Board • Allstate’s Board takes a forward-looking approach when considering
considers refreshment in light of upcoming upcoming needs and retirements on the Board and is proactive with its
retirements and changing business needs. refreshment processes.
Strong Governance Practices Enhance Shareholder Rights
Allstate has enhanced its governance practices over time to serve the best interests of its shareholders. Shareholder
rights include annual election of directors with a majority vote standard, proxy access rights, no shareholder rights
plan (“poison pill”), no supermajority vote provisions, confidential voting and right to call a special meeting and request
action by written consent.
62 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.comCorporate Governance
2024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Communication with the Board
The Board has established a process to facilitate communication by The Allstate Board welcomes your
shareholders and other interested parties with directors as a group. input on compensation, governance
The chief legal officer and general counsel reports regularly to the and other matters.
nominating, governance and social responsibility committee on all
correspondence received that, in her opinion, involves functions of directors@allstate.com
the Board or its committees or that merits Board attention. Items that
are unrelated to the duties and responsibilities of the Board are not The Allstate Corporation,
forwarded, such as: business solicitations or advertisements; product Nominating, Governance and
related inquiries; junk mail or mass mailings; resumes or other job- Social Responsibility Committee,
related inquiries; or spam and overtly hostile, threatening, potentially 3100 Sanders Road, Northbrook,
illegal or similarly unsuitable communications. Activity on social media IL 60062, c/o General Counsel
is also monitored and reported to the nominating, governance and
social responsibility committee.
In addition, the audit committee has established procedures for the
receipt, retention and treatment of any complaints about accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters. To
report any issue relating to The Allstate Corporation (including Allstate Insurance Company and its affiliates) accounting,
accounting controls, financial reporting or auditing practices, you may contact the company by mail, telephone or email.
Telephone contacts may be kept confidential at your request.
By mail: By phone: By email:
The Allstate Corporation, Audit Committee Allstate i-Report Line: auditcommittee2@allstate.com
3100 Sanders Road, Northbrook, IL 60062 c/o 1-800-706-9855
General Counsel
The communication process and the methods to communicate with directors are posted on the “Governance Overview”
section of www.allstateinvestors.com.
More Information
You can learn more about Allstate’s corporate governance by visiting www.allstateinvestors.com, where you will find our
Corporate Governance Guidelines, each standing committee charter and Director Independence Standards. Allstate has
adopted a comprehensive Global Code of Business Conduct that applies to the CEO, CFO, chief accounting officer and
controller, and other senior financial and executive officers, as well as the Board of Directors and other employees. It is
also available at www.allstateinvestors.com. Each of the above documents is available in print upon written request to
the Office of the Secretary, The Allstate Corporation, 3100 Sanders Road, Northbrook, IL 60062, or by email request to
invrel@allstate.com.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 632024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Director Compensation
Director Compensation Program
We structure the compensation program for non-employee directors to reflect the demands on our directors of serving
on the board of a large, complex and highly regulated company. The nominating, governance and social responsibility
committee reviews non-employee director compensation annually. The following charts describe each component of our
non-employee director compensation program for 2023.
NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR ADDITIONAL ANNUAL CASH RETAINERS(1)
42% 58%
$125,000 $175,000 $50,000 $30,000
Annual Annual Equity(2) Lead Director Compensation and Human
Cash Capital Committee Chair
Retainer(1)
$35,000 $25,000
Audit Committee Chair and Nominating, Governance
Risk and Return Committee Chair and Social Responsibility
Committee Chair
(1) Paid quarterly in advance on the first business day of January, April, July and October. The retainer is prorated for a director who joins the Board
during a quarter.
(2) Directors are granted restricted stock units on June 1 equal in value to $175,000 divided by the closing price of a share of Allstate common stock on such
grant date, rounded up to the nearest whole share.
Director Equity Compensation Further Director Compensation Highlights
• The Board believes that a meaningful portion of a • Director total compensation, Lead Director and
director’s compensation should be in the form of committee chair retainers and equity grant practices
equity securities to create alignment with corporate are all benchmarked annually against insurance industry
performance and shareholder interests. peers and comparably sized large complex companies to
• Annual restricted stock units are granted under a fixed- target total compensation at the median.
value formula and in accordance with the shareholder • No additional fees are paid for Board or committee
approved 2017 Equity Compensation Plan for Non- meeting attendance.
Employee Directors. The aggregate grant date fair
value of any award during a calendar year may not
exceed $800,000.
Director Stock Ownership Guidelines
Each director is expected, within five years of joining the Board or within five years of an increase in annual cash retainer, if
applicable, to accumulate an ownership position in Allstate common stock equal to six times the value of the cash retainer.
Allstate’s stock ownership requirements specify that Allstate shares owned personally and beneficially, as well as unvested
restricted stock units, count toward meeting the requirement.
Each director has met the ownership guideline, except Ms. Turner, who joined the Board in 2023 and Ms. Morris, who joined
the Board in 2024.
New for 2023
Based on consultation with the independent compensation consultant and in light of increased oversight of
sustainability matters, beginning in 2023, the additional annual cash retainer paid to the chair of the nominating,
governance and social responsibility committee was increased to $25,000.
64 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
2023 Director Compensation
The following table summarizes the compensation for each of our non-employee directors who served as a member of the
Board and its committees in 2023.
Fees Earned or
Paid in Cash Stock Awards Total
Name Leadership Roles Held During 2023 ($)(1) ($)(2)(3) ($)
Donald E. Brown 125,000 175,048 300,048
Kermit R. Crawford Audit Committee Chair 160,000 175,048 335,048
Richard T. Hume 125,000 175,048 300,048
Margaret M. Keane 125,000 175,048 300,048
Siddharth N. Mehta Risk and Return Committee Chair 160,000 175,048 335,048
Jacques P. Perold 125,000 175,048 300,048
Andrea Redmond Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility 150,000 175,048 325,048
Committee Chair
Gregg M. Sherrill Lead Director 175,000 175,048 350,048
Judith A. Sprieser 125,000 175,048 300,048
Perry M. Traquina Compensation and Human Capital Committee Chair 155,000 175,048 330,048
Monica Turner 114,238 233,489 347,727
(1) Under the 2017 Equity Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, directors may elect to receive Allstate common stock in lieu of cash compensation.
In 2023, Ms. Keane and Messrs. Brown and Traquina each elected to receive 100% of their retainer in stock. Also, under Allstate’s Deferred Compensation
Plan for Non-Employee Directors, directors may elect to defer their retainers to an account that is credited or debited, as applicable, based on (a) the fair
market value of, and dividends paid on, Allstate common shares (common share units); (b) an average interest rate calculated on 90-day dealer commercial
paper; (c) S&P 500 Index, with dividends reinvested; or (d) a money market fund. No director has voting or investment powers in common share units, which
are payable solely in cash. Subject to certain restrictions, amounts deferred under the plan, together with earnings thereon, may be transferred between
accounts and are distributed after the director leaves the Board in a lump sum or over a period not in excess of ten years in accordance with the director’s
instructions. The accumulated amount of Allstate common share units as of December 29, 2023, for directors previously electing to defer their cash
retainer, is reflected in the table below.
Allstate Common Share Units
Amounts Deferred under Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (#)
Mr. Traquina 7,356
(2) Grant date fair value for restricted stock units granted in 2023 is based on the final closing price of Allstate common stock on the actual grant date, which
in part also reflects the payment of expected future dividend equivalent rights. (See Note 19 to our audited financial statements for 2023). The final grant
date closing price was $109.20. In addition, Ms. Turner received a prorated award upon joining the Board in 2023 for which the final grant closing price was
$128.16. The values were computed in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718. Each restricted
stock unit entitles the director to receive one share of Allstate common stock on the conversion date (see footnote 3).
(3) The following table provides outstanding restricted stock units as of December 29, 2023, for each director, except for Ms. Morris, who did not join the Board
until January 2024. The value of the restricted stock units is based on the closing price of our common stock of $139.98 on December 29, 2023.
Value of Restricted
Restricted Stock Units as of
Stock Units 12/29/23 Multiple of Annual
Name (#) ($) Cash Retainer
Mr. Brown 4,027 563,699 8.0
Mr. Crawford 21,933 3,070,181 25.7
Mr. Hume 4,027 563,699 6.2
Ms. Keane 4,027 563,699 18.1
Mr. Mehta 13,571 1,899,669 20.6
Mr. Perold 14,057 1,967,699 15.8
Ms. Redmond 37,405 5,235,952 44.1
Mr. Sherrill 4,027 563,699 11.2
Ms. Sprieser 42,215 5,909,256 47.3
Mr. Traquina 12,616 1,765,988 18.1
Ms. Turner 2,059 288,219 2.3
Restricted stock unit awards granted before September 15, 2008, convert into common stock one year after termination of Board service. Restricted stock
unit awards granted on or after September 15, 2008, and before June 1, 2016, convert into common stock upon termination of Board service. Restricted stock
units granted on or after June 1, 2016, convert into common stock on the earlier of the third anniversary of the date of grant or upon termination of Board
service. Directors had the option to defer the conversion of the restricted stock units granted on June 1, 2016, for ten years from the date of grant or the
later of termination of Board service or June 1, 2024. The conversion of restricted stock units granted after June 1, 2016, may be deferred for ten years or until
termination of Board service. In addition to the conversion periods described above, restricted stock units will convert upon death or disability. Each restricted
stock unit includes a dividend equivalent right that entitles the director to receive a payment equal to regular cash dividends paid on Allstate common stock.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 65Executive
Compensation
W: 10 mm H: 10 mm
Standard size of artboard
1 pt
Standard stroke weight
Make sure the icon is centered within the artboard
Remove unnecessary color swatches
Check the overprinting from the ATTRIBUTES window (Ctrl+F11)
Executive
compensation
Proposal 02 Say-on-Pay:
Advisory Vote on the
02 Say-on-Pay: Advisory Vote on the
Compensation of the Named Executives
Compensation of the Named
Executives
What am I voting on?
VOTING RECOMMENDATION:
The Board We conduct a say-on-pay vote every year at the annual meeting. While the vote
is non-binding, the Board and the compensation and human capital committee
recommends (the “committee” as referenced throughout the Compensation Discussion and
Analysis (“CD&A”) and Executive Compensation sections) consider the results as
a vote FOR
part of their annual evaluation of our executive compensation program.
this proposal.
Overview
• Independent oversight by compensation and human capital committee of
the Board
• Independent compensation consultant utilized to evaluate and benchmark
compensation program
• Executive compensation targeted at 50th percentile of peers and aligned
with short-and long-term business goals and strategy
• Compensation programs are working effectively. Annual incentive
compensation funding for our named executives in 2023 was reduced by
50% from the formulaic result of 100% of target due to negative Net Income.
You may vote to approve or not approve the following advisory resolution on the
executive compensation of the named executives:
RESOLVED, on an advisory basis, the shareholders of The Allstate
Corporation approve the compensation of the named executives, as
disclosed pursuant to the compensation disclosure rules of the SEC,
including the Compensation Discussion and Analysis and accompanying
tables and narrative on pages 67-106 of the Notice of 2024 Annual Meeting
and Proxy Statement.
66 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.comExecutive Compensation
2024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
Message from the Compensation and Human Capital Committee
As members of the compensation and human capital committee, we thank the many of you that engaged with
us and provided feedback during 2023. While it is always encouraging to learn that many shareholders believe
Allstate has a rigorous compensation program, open and constructive dialogue on potential enhancements is also
appreciated. Allstate’s compensation philosophy is to pay for performance over the long-term, as well as reward
achievement of key strategic and operational measures on an annual basis. Each year, the committee reviews the
named executives’ performance using a balanced and disciplined approach to determine base salaries and variable
compensation awards. The approach for 2023 included a range of performance and governance considerations, as
well as shareholder feedback, as inputs into compensation decisions. During 2023, the committee also continued
to focus on senior leadership development and succession planning. Key human capital practices and initiatives
happening across Allstate were reviewed, including organizational health, employee retention and wellbeing,
company culture and progress against the Inclusive Diversity and Equity strategy. The committee is fully engaged on
these important topics and committed to driving improvements. We appreciate the feedback on all of these topics,
and hope to have your support on this year’s say-on-pay vote.
Perry M. Traquina (Chair) Margaret M. Keane Judith A. Sprieser
Richard T. Hume Andrea Redmond
68 2023 Executive Compensation At-a-Glance 1
68 Target Compensation Mix
68 Alignment of Pay with Performance
68 2023 Annual Cash Incentive
68 2021-2023 Performance Stock Awards
69 Compensation Governance Best Practices
69 Compensation Tied to Business Strategies
69 Compensation Metrics Support Strategy
70 Comparison of Total Shareholder Return (%) Against Allstate Peers
71 Incentive Design and Goal-Setting 2
Our Compensation Discussion and Analysis
71 Role of the Compensation and Human Capital Committee
describes Allstate’s executive compensation
71 Incentive Design, Payout, and Goal-Setting Process
program, including total 2023 compensation for
72 Shareholder Engagement and 2023 Say-on-Pay Results
our named executives listed below(1):
72 Timing of Equity Awards and Grant Practices
73 Peer Benchmarking
Thomas J. Wilson
74 Compensation Elements 3 Chair, President, and Chief Executive Officer (CEO)
74 Overview Jesse Merten
74 Salary Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
75 Annual Cash Incentive Awards Officer (CFO)
79 Performance Stock Awards and Stock Options
John Dugenske
82 2024-2026 Performance Stock Award
President, Investments and Corporate Strategy
83 Compensation Decisions for 2023 4 Suren Gupta
President, Protection Products and Enterprise
86 Other Elements of Compensation 5
Services
86 Retirement Benefits
Mario Rizzo
86 Change in Control and Post-Termination Benefits
President, Property-Liability
87 Compensation Governance Practices
87 Equity Ownership Requirements (1) See Appendix C for a full list of Allstate’s executive officers
and titles.
87 Policies on Hedging and Pledging Securities
87 Clawback of Compensation
88 Compensation Risk
88 Compensation Committee Report
88 The Compensation and Human Capital Committee
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 672024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
1
2023 Executive Compensation At-a-Glance
Allstate’s executive compensation program is designed to ensure that the interests of our executives are aligned with
our shareholders:
Pay for Performance Establish a Strong Link Between
The majority of the CEO’s and other NEOs’ compensation Performance Measures and Strategic
opportunity is at-risk and based on measurable
Objectives
performance goals.
Performance measures are linked to operating priorities
designed to create long-term shareholder value.
Target Compensation Mix
CEO At-Risk Performance-Based Pay: 92%
8%
Base 23% 41% 28%
Salary Annual Cash Incentive Performance Stock Awards Stock Options
OTHER NEOs
At-Risk Performance-Based Pay: 81%
19% 24% 34% 23%
Base Salary Annual Cash Incentive Performance Stock Awards Stock Options
Alignment of Pay with Performance
Allstate’s executive compensation program is aligned with long-term shareholder value through equity-based programs,
combined with shareholder value-based performance measures and financial performance measures that are closely
correlated with shareholder value over time. The named executives’ compensation is aligned with achievement of our
financial and long-term strategic goals and at least 81% of their compensation is at-risk. Incentive compensation plans
incorporate relevant metrics and targets to drive the behaviors necessary to accomplish our short- and long-term goals.
2023 Annual Cash Incentive
50% TOTAL PREMIUMS PERFORMANCE NET INVESTMENT INCOME
(in millions)(1) NET INCOME (in millions)(1)
Pool funding of 100% was reduced by (in millions)(1)
50% due to negative net income as Actual Results: $54,963 Actual Results: $1,122 Actual Results: $2,535
determined by these results
$52,600 $53,600 $54,600 $1,310 $2,810 $4,010 $2,250 $2,570 $2,890
Threshold Target Maximum Threshold Target Maximum Threshold Target Maximum
2022 actual results: Total Premiums $50,437, Performance Net Income ($426), Net Investment Income $2,318
2021-2023 Performance Stock Awards
ITEMS IN FORCE GROWTH(1)
31%
AVERAGE PERFORMANCE NET
RELATIVE TSR(1)
INCOME RETURN ON EQUITY(1) PERSONAL PROPERTY AND LIABILITY
Payout
Actual Results: 8.0% Actual Results: 36.0th Actual Results: 3.8%
percentage
3.0% 5.0% 7.0%
10.0% 16.0% 18.0% <25th 55th 90th Threshold Target Maximum
Threshold Target Maximum Threshold Target Maximum
ALL OTHER
Actual Results: 3.4%
0.0% 2.0% 4.0%
Threshold Target Maximum
(1) For a description of how these measures are determined, see pages 75-82.
68 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Compensation Governance Best Practices
Our compensation program adheres to high standards of compensation governance for our executive officers.
What We Do What We Do Not Do
% Benchmark to peers of similar industry, size and business complexity X Employment agreements for executive officers
% Target pay at 50th percentile of peers X Guaranteed annual salary increases or bonuses
% Independent compensation consultant X Special tax gross ups
% Double trigger in the event of a change in control X Repricing or exchange of underwater stock options
% Maximum payout caps for annual cash Incentive compensation and X Plans that encourage excessive risk-taking
performance stock awards (“PSAs”) X Hedging or pledging of Allstate securities
% Robust equity ownership requirements X Inclusion of equity awards in pension calculations
% Clawback or cancellation of certain compensation X Excessive perks
% One-year minimum equity vesting provision in the equity plan
X Count unvested PSAs or stock options towards
% Provide clear rationale for the metrics used to fund the annual and ownership requirements
long-term incentive plans
Executive Compensation Program is Tied to Business Strategies
Allstate’s business relies on the expertise and capabilities of colleagues to lead the company and various businesses in ways that
meet customers’ needs and, in turn, promote the long-term interests of shareholders. The executive compensation program is
designed to achieve business objectives and attract, motivate and retain talented individuals.
Allstate’s executive compensation program closely aligns the compensation and interests of the named executives with the
long-term interests of shareholders and the economic realities of the operating environment. Allstate’s executive compensation
program emphasizes performance-based compensation in the form of cash incentive awards and equity incentive awards that
focus respectively on the achievement of short- and long-term financial and strategic targets. This target-based incentive structure
fosters a culture of high performance and accountability and promotes shareholder interests by closely aligning executive
compensation with objectively measured company performance and achievement of key strategic priorities. In 2023, Allstate
adapted to unprecedented increases in loss costs, improved underwriting performance, generated investment returns in excess of
targets and advanced on operating priorities and Transformative Growth.
2023 COMPENSATION METRICS SUPPORT ALLSTATE’S STRATEGY
Total Premiums Captures growth and competitive position of the Allstate businesses
Annual Cash
Incentive Performance Net Income Aligns with shareholders’ views of expected profitability and return
on capital
Awards
Net Investment Income Reflects a significant component of profitability
Average Performance Net Correlates to changes in long-term shareholder value
Performance
Income ROE
Stock Awards Measures performance in a way that is tracked and understood by
investors
Captures both income statement and balance sheet impacts,
including capital management actions
Relative Total Shareholder Added based on feedback from shareholders and market practices
Return (“TSR”)
Performance is relative to a custom TSR peer group
Transformative Growth Measures progress on Transformative Growth strategy and assess
growth of Allstate’s businesses
Inclusive Diversity and Equity Measures progress on Allstate’s Inclusive Diversity and Equity priorities
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 69Progress on our Operating Priorities
Improve customer • Enterprise Net Promoter Score, which measures how likely customers are to recommend Allstate,
value finished below the prior year, reflecting substantial price increases necessary to offset higher loss
costs.
Grow customer base • Consolidated policies in force reached 194 million, a 2.8% increase from prior year. Property-Liability
policies in force decreased by 2.0% compared to the prior year, as continued growth at National General
was more than offset by decreases at the Allstate brand and a decline in renewals in the auto insurance
business. Protection Services policies in force increased 4.3%, primarily due to growth at Allstate
Protection Plans.
Achieve target • The Property-Liability combined ratio of 104.5 for the full year decreased compared to the prior year
economic returns primarily reflecting increased premiums earned, partially offsetting continued high loss costs. A
on capital comprehensive profitability plan is being executed.
Proactively manage • Net investment income of $2.48 billion in 2023 was $75 million higher than prior year as higher
investments market-based investment income was partially offset by lower performance-based results. Total
return on the $66.68 billion (as of 12/31/23) investment portfolio was 6.7% in 2023. Proactive portfolio
management repositioned the fixed income portfolio into longer duration and higher-yielding assets
that increased income.
Execute • Allstate made substantial progress in advancing Transformative Growth initiatives in 2023, including
Transformative continued cost reductions, deployment of a new property-liability technology platform and a new
Affordable, Simple, Connected auto insurance offering in seven states. National General is building a
Growth
strong competitive position in independent agent distribution. A digital enterprise is being built by
expanding utilization of machine-based learning and artificial intelligence.
Progress on our Transformative Growth Strategy
Improve • Lower expenses, enhanced price sophistication and telematics helped mitigate required price
customer value increases. Affordable, Simple, Connected auto insurance product now offered in seven states.
Expand • Transforming Allstate agent sales system to enable more growth at a lower cost, while expanding
customer access distribution capacity through new agent models. Increased direct channel distribution through
improved online experience and data-driven insights to enhance call center sales. Grew National
General by leveraging enterprise capabilities and data to expand product offerings and fully utilize
our independent agency relationships.
Increase sophistication • Improved the effectiveness of customer acquisition by expanding lead management, building data
and investment in capabilities and utilizing household insights.
customer acquisition
Deploy new technology • Deployed key components of new technology ecosystem to deliver affordable, simple and
ecosystem connected experiences and products at a lower cost.
Drive organizational • Delivered an exceptional customer experience enabled by enhanced human resource tools and
transformation technology, an engaged and high performing global workforce, and organizational designs for
efficiency.
COMPARISON OF TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN (%) AGAINST ALLSTATE PEERS
5-YEAR 3-YEAR 1-YEAR
140%
105%
70%
35%
0%
%4.411
%0.521
%3.401
%7.19
140%
105%
70%
35%
0%
%8.85 %2.16 %2.85
%3.83
140%
105%
70%
35%
0%
%2.9 %8.8 %0.8 %3.6
2024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Peers P&C Peers Life Peers Allstate
70 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
2
Incentive Design and Goal-Setting
Role of the Compensation and Human Capital Committee
The compensation and human capital committee oversees and approves Allstate’s executive compensation program.
The committee sets the CEO’s compensation, reviews and approves compensation for the rest of the leadership
team, reviews senior management selections and, in conjunction with the full Board, oversees succession planning.
The committee also oversees human capital priorities for the company, including review of Allstate’s IDE strategy
and progress with the full Board.
The committee evaluates the executive compensation structure on an annual basis to ensure alignment with Allstate’s
compensation philosophy, business strategy and shareholder priorities. The compensation philosophy centers around
maintaining a compensation program for the named executives that is designed to promote the achievement of short-term
and long-term financial and strategic goals. For additional information on strategic and operating priorities, see pages 14-16.
Incentive Design, Payout and Goal-Setting Process
For the annual and long-term incentive programs, the committee oversees a rigorous and comprehensive goal-setting
process. The committee uses performance measures in the annual and long-term programs that (1) align with the
company’s strategy, operating priorities and shareholder interests, (2) support the achievement of corporate goals, and
(3) reflect the company’s overall performance. The following timeline of key events reflects the committee’s process:
APRIL-JULY
Benchmark
• Evaluate peer group to determine if • Review feedback from shareholders and
any changes are required for the next proxy advisory firms on compensation
performance cycle • Independent compensation consultant
• Compare against peers’ actual provides pay for performance analysis,
compensation paid, financial results, advice on incentive design and
and shareholder returns over one, three information on current market practices
and five years Ongoing and industry trends
• Review compensation
philosophy and
objectives in light of
company performance,
FEBRUARY NOVEMBER-JANUARY
goals and strategy,
Calculate Payouts shareholder feedback Establish Plan Design and Key Metrics
and external
benchmarking
• Actual performance against goals • Independent compensation consultant
• Monitor compensation
determines the corporate pool for the provides advice on executive pay levels
estimates in comparison
annual incentive award to actual and relative • Establish plan design and performance
• CEO reviews overall company funding performance measures for the upcoming year
for each business area based on its • Monitor compliance with • Review the annual operating plan to
operating performance in relationship management equity establish target performance and ranges
to target performance goals ownership requirements for threshold and maximum for the annual
• Determine the number of performance incentive program, and review historical
stock awards that will vest for the and expected performance, market
applicable measurement period based expectations and industry trends when
on actual performance approving the ranges of performance for
• Review and approve salary adjustments the long-term incentive program
and annual incentive payments and • Review operating plans and
equity grants for executive officers compensation measures for alignment
with enterprise risk and return principles
What’s New
In 2023, the committee moved the timing of the executive pay levels review and recommendations from the independent
compensation consultant to the fourth quarter of the year to reflect more current market data in the analysis.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 712024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Shareholder Engagement and 2023 Say-on-Pay Results
90%
Allstate engages with its largest shareholders multiple times throughout
the year to ensure continued alignment of compensation practices with
shareholder expectations and market trends.
The committee actively solicits the views of significant shareholders on At our last annual
executive compensation matters. In determining the structure and amount shareholder meeting,
of executive pay, the committee carefully considered this feedback. During approximately 90% of
2023 engagement, investors generally commented that Allstate utilizes votes cast supported
best practices and remains focused on pay for performance in its plan our executive
design. The committee considered the vote results, investor input and compensation program.
current market practices and made changes to respond to that feedback, as
described below.
WHAT WE HEARD WHAT WE DID
Prefer to see a The Strategic Initiatives Scorecard, a qualitative measure weighted
sustainability-oriented at 20%, measures progress made against Transformative
goal, or other non-financial Growth and IDE strategies throughout the year. In 2023, these
metric, in the executive two components were moved from the annual incentive plan
compensation program to the long-term PSAs to align with Allstate’s sustainable
long-term objectives, specifically Transformative Growth and IDE.
When sustainability- Expanded disclosure on the criteria considered by the committee
related metrics are used in when determining funding results under the non-financial components
compensation programs, of the PSAs.
prefer to see clear disclosure
for how they are evaluated
Believes that majority For 2023, the non-financial Strategic Initiatives Scorecard
of compensation should measure was removed from the annual incentive plan. All three
be performance-based annual measures are now directly tied to business growth and
and primarily aligned profitability. Beginning in 2024, the annual incentive plan will be
with operational and further aligned with profitable growth with individual business
financial results unit results representing 70% and overall performance net income
representing 30%.
Timing of Equity Awards and Grant Practices
Typically, the committee approves grants of equity awards during a meeting in the first fiscal quarter. The timing allows the
committee to align awards with our annual performance and business goals.
Throughout the year, the committee may grant equity incentive awards to newly hired or promoted executives or to retain
or recognize executives. The grant date for these awards was fixed as the third business day of a month following the later
of committee action or the date of hire or promotion.
For additional information on the committee’s practices, see portions of the Board Oversight and Board Meetings and
Committees sections of this proxy statement on pages 48-57 and 43-47, respectively.
72 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.comPeer Group
Peer Benchmarking
The committee monitors performance toward goals throughout the year and reviews the executive compensation
program design and executive pay levels annually. As part of that evaluation, Pay Governance, the committee’s
independent compensation consultant, provided executive compensation data, information on current market practices,
and benchmarking on target pay opportunities. The committee benchmarks executive compensation program design,
executive pay, and performance against a general benchmark and a group of peer companies that are industry peers.
Product mix, market segment, annual revenues, premiums, assets and market value were considered when identifying
peer companies. The committee believes Allstate competes against these public companies for executive talent, business
and shareholder investment. The committee reviews the composition of the peer group annually with the assistance of its
compensation consultant.
The compensation consultant’s recommendation has been to use a peer group that reflects Allstate’s business and
operations. Currently, nine out of thirteen of Allstate’s peer companies also include Allstate in their respective peer
company lists. The following table reflects the peer group used for 2023 compensation benchmarking.
PEER COMPANIES(1)(2) Revenue Market Cap Assets Premiums
Company Name ($ in billions) ($ in billions) ($ in billions) ($ in billions)
AFLAC Inc. 18.7 47.7 126.7 14.1
American International Group Inc. 46.8 46.7 539.3 36.1
AON 13.4 57.8 33.9 13.4
Chubb Limited 49.8 91.6 228.9 45.7
The Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. 24.5 24.0 76.8 21.4
Humana Inc. 106.4 56.0 47.1 101.3
Manulife Financial Corporation 36.1 40.0 663.0 17.8
Marsh & McLennan 22.8 93.2 48.0 14.1
MetLife Inc. 66.9 48.3 687.6 49.4
The Progressive Corporation 62.1 93.2 88.7 58.7
Prudential Financial Inc. 54.0 37.3 721.1 31.9
The Travelers Companies Inc. 41.4 43.5 126.0 37.8
Allstate 57.1 36.7 103.4 52.5
Allstate Ranking Relative to Peers:
Property and Casualty Insurance Products Life Insurance and Financial Products All Peer Companies (1) Information as of year-end 2023.
(2) Liberty Mutual was added as a compensation peer benchmark but because they are not traded publicly, we do not include their information in this table.
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
3
2
1
-
<90 90-110 110-150 150-200 200+
sreeP#
5 Year Total Shareholder Return
9
8
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1 1 1
1
-
0
<30 30-50 50-70 70-90 90+
Total Shareholder Return Range (%)
sreeP#
3 Year Total Shareholder Return
9
8
7
6
5
4 4
4
3
3
2 2
2
1
0
<0 0-10 10-20 20-30 30+
Total Shareholder Return Range (%)
sreeP#
2024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
1 Year Total Shareholder Return
5
3
1 1
Total Shareholder Return Range (%)
The committee uses compensation surveys for certain executives that provide information on companies of similar size and
business mix as Allstate, as well as companies with a broader market context.
The committee uses the 50th percentile of our peer group as a guideline in setting the target total direct
compensation of our named executives. Within the guideline, the committee balances the various elements of
compensation based on individual experience, job scope and responsibilities, performance, tenure and market practices.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 732024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
3
Compensation Elements
Overview
The following table lists the elements of target direct compensation for our 2023 executive compensation program.
Short-Term Mid-Term Long-Term
Fixed Variable
13%(1) 24%(1) 38%(1) 25%(1)
Base Annual Cash Performance Stock Stock Options
Salary Incentive Awards Awards
Cash Cash Equity Equity
Why We Pay This Element
Attract and retain Motivate and reward Motivate and reward executives Align the interests of
executives with executives for performance for performance on key executives with long-
competitive level of on key strategic, operational, long-term measures. term shareholder value.
cash compensation. and financial measures during
Align the interests of executives with Retain executive talent.
the year.
long-term shareholder value.
Retain executive talent.
Key Characteristics
Reviewed annually A corporate-wide funding pool PSAs vest on the third anniversary of Non-qualified stock
and adjusted based on performance on the grant date. options to purchase
when appropriate. three measures: shares at the market
For the 2023 PSA grant, actual amounts
price when awarded.
• Total Premiums(2) of PSAs vesting based on performance
Vest ratably over
• Performance Net Income(2) on Performance Net Income ROE(2), three years.
Relative TSR(2), Transformative Growth(2)
• Net Investment Income(2)
and Inclusive Diversity and Equity Expire in ten years or, in
Pool is then allocated based
measures(2) with a requirement of the event of retirement,
on business unit and individual
positive net income in order for our the earlier of five years
performance; if positive
executives to earn PSAs for Average or normal expiration.
net income is not achieved,
Performance Net Income ROE above
funding for senior executives is
target.
reduced by 50%.
(1) Represents the average of the target direct compensation elements for all of the named executives in 2023.
(2) For a description of how these measures are determined, see page 102.
Salary
In setting executive salary levels, the committee uses the 50th percentile of total target direct compensation of our
peer companies as a guideline, which supports Allstate’s ability to compete effectively for and to retain executive talent.
Annual merit increases for named executives are based on their performance and external benchmarking as provided by
the independent compensation consultant.
74 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Annual Cash Incentive Awards
Metrics and Purpose
METRIC PURPOSE
Financial Total Premiums(1) (45%) Captures growth and competitive position of the Allstate
Goals businesses
Performance Net Income(1) (45%) Aligns with shareholders’ views of expected profitability and return
on capital
Net Investment Income(1) (10%) Reflects a significant component of profitability
(1) The numbers reflect the percentage that each performance measure contributed to the total corporate funding pool.
New for 2024
Focusing on profitable growth, our 2024 annual incentive plan design will measure profitable growth in the business
unit results of each of our operating segments (Allstate Protection, Protection Services, and Allstate Health and
Benefits) and Investments representing 70% of the pool, with the remaining 30% based on Performance Net Income.
The profitable growth measure will use a grid of combined ratio and items in force growth.
How Target Opportunities Are Set
• Target annual incentive percentages for each named executive are based on consideration of incentive opportunities at
peer companies and our benchmark target for total direct compensation at the 50th percentile.
How Performance Goals Are Established
• The committee sets annual cash incentive performance goals based on the annual operating plan. Target
performance is equal to the operating plan. Threshold and maximum measures are based on a range of sensitivities
relative to the operating plan. To further test the appropriateness of the ranges, the committee’s independent
consultant provides advice based on peer performance, market expectations and industry trends. The chief
risk officer reviews the performance measures and ranges to ensure they are consistent with Allstate’s risk and
return principles and do not incentivize unnecessary and excessive risk taking.
• The 2023 annual incentive plan target for Total Premiums was above prior year actual results as it has been for at least
the last decade.
• Performance Net Income target for 2023 was set above 2022 target and actual results as projections for 2023
anticipated improved profitability through planned rate increases.
• Net Investment Income target was set above 2022 actual results driven by projected market-based income increasing
due to higher yields.
• We do not disclose incentive plan goals prior to the completion of the performance period because they are tied to our
operating plan, which is proprietary information.
Corporate Pool Funded Based on Actual Performance
• Actual performance on the previously approved measures determines the overall funding level of the corporate pool and
the aggregate total award budget for eligible employees. The committee approved the total company funding after the
end of the performance period based on the actual results on these performance measures. For the actual results and
detail on how each measure was defined and calculated, see pages 76-78.
• In 2023, the pool was funded based on the collective results of the three performance metrics. Funding ranges from 0%
to 200% of target, and results between threshold, target and maximum are subject to interpolation.
• In the event of a net loss, the pool funding is reduced by 50% of actual performance for senior executives, including
the named executive officers. For example, if performance measures ordinarily would fund the corporate pool at 60%
and there was a net loss, then the corporate pool would be funded at 30% for senior executives. This mechanism
ensures alignment of pay and performance in the event of multiple large natural catastrophes and/or extreme financial
market conditions.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 752024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Determine Calculation of Corporate Pool Funding
ACTUAL PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGET ON PLAN MEASURES
Total Performance Net Investment
Premiums Net Income Income
Corporate Pool
(45%) (45%) (10%)
Funding(1)
(0%-200% of target)
(Funding from 0%-200% of target)
(1) For 2023, pool funding for senior leadership was reduced by 50% due to negative net
income
Determine Annual Incentive Payments to NEOs and other Executive Officers
• Committee’s compensation recommendations for the CEO are reviewed and approved by the independent directors of
our Board in executive session.
• Committee reviews and approves CEO recommendations for executive officers based on pool funding, the target
annual incentive percentages for each NEO, and individual performance.
• The individual performance factors considered by the committee when determining payouts are outlined on pages 81-83.
Determine Annual Incentive Payment for Other Eligible Participants
The committee provides oversight of annual incentive processes and decisions below executive officers
• The CEO may allocate the corporate pool between the Market-
Facing Businesses and Areas of Responsibility (“AOR”) if justified by For 2023, the CEO distributed
relative performance against annual operating goals and other key committee-approved funding
business success metrics. based on the relative performance
• Individual awards for eligible employees are determined by of Market Facing Businesses
senior leaders. and AORs.
7
76 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
2023 Actual Performance
We paid the 2023 cash incentive awards in March 2024.
TOTAL PREMIUMS ($ in millions) PERFORMANCE NET INCOME ($ in millions)
$54,963
$55,000 $53,600 $6,000
Payout
$53,000
200% $5,000
$50,437
$51,000
$49,100 Payout
$49,000 $4,000
200%
$47,000 $2,810 Payout
$3,000
XXX.X%
$45,000
$2,000
$43,000 $2,000
$41,000 Payout $1,122(1)
$1,000 0% Payout
$39,000
0%
($426)(1)
$37,000 $0
2022 2023
2022 2023
Target Actual
Target Actual
NET INVESTMENT INCOME ($ in millions)
$4,000
$3,000
$2,570 $2,535
$2,318(2)
Payout
$1,860
$2,000 Payout 95%
200%
$1,000
$0
2022 2023
Target Actual
(1) The collar for Performance Net Income was utilized in 2022 decreasing the absolute level by $209 million to ($426) million, and in 2023 increasing the
absolute level by $660 million to $1,122 million.
(2) The collar for Net Investment Income was utilized in 2022 decreasing the absolute level by $99 million to $2,318 million.
• For a description of how the 2023 measures are determined, see pages 75-76.
• The ranges of performance and 2023 actual results are shown in the following table. The committee assessed the CEO’s
2023 performance, and the CEO assessed each of the other NEO’s 2023 performance. No discretion was applied to the
Named Executives’ annual incentive awards in 2023.
• Pool funding for senior executives, including the named executive officers, was reduced by 50% due to negative
net income.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 772024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
2023 ANNUAL CASH INCENTIVE AWARD RANGES OF PERFORMANCE
Increase/
(Decrease)
2022 Versus 2022 2023
Actual 2023 2023 2023 Actual %
Measure Results Threshold Target Maximum Results Target
Actual Results: $54,963
Total Premiums
($ in millions) $50,437 $52,600 $53,600 $54,600 $4,526 200%
Performance Net Actual Results: $1,122
Income
($ in millions) ($426) $1,310 $2,810 $4,010 $1,548 0%
Actual Results: $2,535
Net Investment Income
($ in millions) $2,318 $2,250 $2,570 $2,890 $217 95%
Payout Percentages(1) 50%(2) 100% 200% 50%(3)
(1) Payout percentages reflect contribution to incentive compensation pool.
(2) Actual performance below threshold results in a 0% payout.
(3) Overall pool funding reduced to 50% of aggregate performance due to negative Net Income (per AIP plan definition).
78 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Performance Stock Awards and Stock Options
Allstate grants equity awards annually to executives consistent with market practice and the philosophy that a significant
amount of compensation should be in the form of equity. Additionally, from time to time, equity awards are granted to
attract new executives and to retain existing executives.
Mix of Equity Incentives
The mix of equity incentives for senior executives is 60% PSAs and 40% stock options. Beginning in 2024, the equity mix
for the CEO and senior executives was changed based on shareholder feedback. The equity mix for the CEO will be 70%
PSAs and 30% stock options and senior executives will be 60% PSAs, 20% RSUs and 20% stock options. PSAs and stock
options are forms of performance-based incentive compensation because PSAs are earned based on achieving established
performance goals and stock options require stock price appreciation to deliver value to an executive.
2023 CEO EQUITY MIX 2024 CEO EQUITY MIX
40% 60% 30% 70%
Stock PSAs Stock PSAs
Options Options
Metrics and Purpose
PERFORMANCE STOCK AWARD METRICS AND PURPOSE
PSAs granted PSAs granted Why Metric Was Chosen
in 2021 and 2022 in 2023
50% 50% Average Performance Net Income ROE
Average Average • Correlates to changes in long-term shareholder value.
Performance Performance • Measures performance in a way that is tracked and understood by investors.
Net Income Net Income
• Captures both income statement and balance sheet impacts, including capital management actions.
ROE ROE
Relative TSR
• Added as a second measure in 2020 based on feedback from shareholders and market practices.
• Performance is relative to a custom TSR peer group. The custom TSR peer group for awards
made in 2022 and 2023 is shown on page 73. Peer groups are designed in consultation with our
compensation consultant.
• <25th percentile = 0% payout
30% 30% • 25th percentile = 50% payout
Relative Relative • 55th percentile = 100% payout
TSR TSR
• 90th percentile = 200% payout
20% 10% Transformative Growth
Items in Force Transformative • Moved qualitative measurement from Annual Incentive Plan as long-term quantitative measurement
Growth Growth supporting growth Strategy in 2023.
10% Inclusive Diversity and Equity
Inclusive • Moved measurement from Annual Incentive Plan to reflect the long-term commitment and nature of
Diversity and the Inclusive Diversity and Equity strategy.
Equity
Measurement
Three-years
period
Vesting Between 0% to 200% of the target number of PSAs granted
The measures are further described on pages 102-103.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 792024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
How Performance Goals are Established
• For each measure, the committee considered historical and expected performance, market expectations and industry
trends when approving the range of performance goals.
• All PSA awards for Performance Net Income ROE include a minimum or maximum amount of after-tax catastrophe losses
if actual catastrophe losses are less than or exceed those amounts, respectively, which serves to decrease volatility and
stabilize the measure.
How Payouts Are Calculated for 2023-2025 Cycle
ACTUAL PERFORMANCE PAYOUT AGAINST TARGET ON PLAN MEASURES
Average Performance
Relative TSR Transformative Inclusive NEO Target PSA
Net Income ROE
X 30% Growth X 10% Diversity and Opportunity Payout
X 50%
Equity X 10%
Payout from 0%-200%
of target Payout from
No payout if Allstate has 0%-200% of
a cumulative net loss in a target
measurement period
• At the end of each measurement period, the committee certifies the level of achievement on each performance measure.
• The committee requires positive net income in order for senior executives to earn PSAs based on Average Performance
Net Income ROE above target. If Allstate has a cumulative net loss in a measurement period, the number of PSAs vested
would not exceed target, regardless of the Average Performance Net Income ROE. This positive net income hurdle is
included to prevent misalignment between Allstate reported net income and the PSAs vested based on the Average
Performance Net Income ROE result. This situation could occur if, for example, catastrophe losses or capital losses that
are not included in Performance Net Income ROE result in a net loss for the period. For a description of the calculation,
see page 82.
• For the 2023 PSA grant, the Items in Force component was replaced with Transformative Growth and Inclusive Diversity
and Equity measures, each carrying a 10% weighting.
• Beginning with the 2024 PSA grant, the Transformative Growth measure was eliminated as a distinct measurement since
the Annual Incentive Plan was modified to address profitable growth and Average Performance Net Income ROE and
Relative TSR reflect profitable growth in the long-term plan. The 10% weighting was applied to relative Total Shareholder
Return (“rTSR”), increasing its total weighting to 40%.
80 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
PSA Ranges of Performance
For the last five PSA grants, the performance measures and levels of performance needed to earn the threshold, target and
maximum number of PSAs, as well as actual results and payout percentages, are set forth in the chart and table below. The
total shareholder returns for Allstate and its peers are also shown for completed cycles.
PERFORMANCE STOCK AWARDS RANGES OF PERFORMANCE
Total Shareholder Return
Performance Cycle Threshold Target Maximum Actual Results Allstate Peers
Vested Awards
2019-2021 11.6% 14.2%
• Performance Net Income ROE (70%) 7.0% 14.0% 16.0% 20.8%
• Earned Book Value (30%) 7.0% 12.0% 14.0% 23.3%
2020-2022 29.9% 49.3%
• Performance Net Income ROE (70%) 7.0% 14.0% 17.0% 15.5%
• Relative TSR (30%) <25th 55th 90th 33.3rd
2021-2023 38.3% 58.8%
• Performance Net Income ROE (50%) 10.0% 16.0% 18.0% 8.0%
• Relative TSR (30%) <25th 55th 90th 36.0th
• Items in Force Growth (20%)
• Personal Property and Liability 3.0% 5.0% 7.0% 3.8%
• All Others 0.0% 2.0% 4.0% 3.4%
Performance Cycle Threshold Target Maximum Actual Results
Outstanding Awards
2022-2024
Two year results are below threshold for
Performance Net Income ROE (50%) 10.0% 16.0% 18.0%
Performance Net Income ROE and IIF
Relative TSR (30%) <25th 55th 90th
Growth and between target and maximum
Items in Force Growth (20%)(1) ND ND ND for Relative TSR
2023-2025
Performance Net Income ROE (50%) 10.0% 16.0% 18.0%
Relative TSR (30%) <25th 55th 90th
One year results are below threshold for
Transformative Growth (10%)(2) ND ND ND
Performance Net Income ROE and on target
Inclusive Diversity and Equity (10%)(3) ND ND ND for Relative TSR
Payout Percentages 0% 100% 200%
(1) The amounts for Items in Force Growth are not disclosed (ND) because they are established based on the three-year strategic plan, which is proprietary
information, and disclosure of goals could cause competitive harm.
(2) The amounts for Transformative Growth are not disclosed (ND) because they are established on the three-year strategic plan, which is proprietary.
(3) The amounts for Inclusive Diversity and Equity are not disclosed (ND) because they are established on the three-year strategic plan, which is proprietary.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 812024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
PSAs Granted in Last Three Performance Cycles
The following table shows the target number of PSAs granted to each of our named executives for the 2021-2023, 2022-
2024 and 2023-2025 performance cycles.
PERFORMANCE CYCLE(1)
Target Number of PSAs for
2021-2023 2022-2024 2023-2025
Named Executive Performance Cycle Performance Cycle Performance Cycle
Mr. Wilson 61,453 52,513 54,551
Mr. Merten 6,471 6,736 10,044
Mr. Dugenske 15,334 13,038 12,445
Mr. Gupta 9,961 8,562 9,300
Mr. Rizzo 13,090 11,328 12,445
(1) The actual number of PSAs that will vest will vary from 0% to 200% of the target PSAs based on Average Performance Net Income ROE, Relative
TSR and Items in Force Growth (for awards granted in 2021 and 2022), Transformative Growth and Inclusive Diversity and Equity, for the applicable
measurement period.
2024-2026 Performance Stock Award
2024-2026 PERFORMANCE STOCK AWARD METRICS
Average Performance Net Income ROE Relative Percentile Rank TSR Inclusive Diversity and Equity
(50%) (40%)(1) (10%)
(1) The 25th percentile would result in a 50% payout. If greater than the 25th percentile, results would be interpolated.
For the 2024-2026 award, the Average Performance Net Income ROE and Relative TSR measures are calculated,
respectively, as follows:
Performance Net Catastrophe Losses Adjusted Common Shareholders’ Equity(2) Average Performance
Income(1) Net Income ROE
Adjusted to reflect Average of common shareholders’ equity
Average for three a minimum or excluding unrealized gains and losses, after 50% of PSA
years in the maximum amount tax, at December 2023, and at the end of Performance
performance cycle of catastrophe each year in the performance cycle Measure
losses
Final Average Initial Average
Adjusted Close Adjusted Stock Relative TSR
Price(3) Price(4) Total Shareholder TSR is ranked relative to 13 peer companies
Return (TSR) (including Allstate)(5)
40% of PSA Performance Measure
Initial Average Adjusted Stock Price(4)
(1) Performance Net Income is defined on pages 101-103.
(2) Adjusted Common Shareholders’ Equity is defined on page 103.
(3) Final Average Adjusted Close Price is the average Adjusted Close Price over the 20 trading days prior to and including the final day of the Performance Period.
(4) Initial Average Adjusted Stock Price is the average Adjusted Stock Price over the 20 trading days prior to the first day of the Performance Period.
(5) See page 73 for information on these peer companies.
82 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.comExecutive Compensation
2024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
4
Compensation Decisions for 2023
Thomas J. Wilson 2023 Compensation
Chair, President, and Chief Executive Officer Weighting Actual Target Outcome
8% Salary
Our Chair, President, and CEO is responsible for managing the company’s $1,385,000 N/A N/A
(Cash)
strategic direction, operating results, organizational health, ethics and
compliance, and corporate responsibility. 13% Annual $2,077,500 300% 50%
Incentive of of target
(Cash)
2023 Performance salary
Mr. Wilson’s compensation reflects his responsibilities, experience and 79% Long-Term $12,869,173(1) 900% 100%
performance, peer company CEO compensation and compensation Incentive of of target
program design. An independent compensation consultant provides Award
salary
guidance to the committee on plan design and actual compensation in (Equity)
comparison to operating results and peers.
Mr. Wilson’s performance as Chair, President, and CEO is assessed over
one- and three- year periods under the following five categories:
Operating Results
Salary (Cash)
• Excellent operating leadership in a volatile external environment. The committee did not adjust Mr. Wilson’s salary of
$1,385,000.
• Executing on comprehensive auto profit improvement plan in response to
inflation in loss costs including significant increases in insurance premiums. Incentive Targets
Mr. Wilson’s annual incentive targets did not
• Improved underwriting performance and higher investment income
change in 2023. Mr. Wilson’s equity incentive
generated favorable adjusted net income
target was increased in 2023. Mr. Wilson’s annual
incentive target was 300% of salary and his target
Strategic Position
equity incentive opportunity was 900% of salary
• Continued implementation of strategy to increase market share in (previously 775%).
personal property-liability and expand protection solutions offered to
Annual Incentive (Cash)
customers.
Mr. Wilson’s target annual incentive payment of
• Significant progress in implementing Transformative Growth, including 300% of base salary with a maximum funding
roll-out of new Allstate brand auto product in seven states. opportunity for the award pool of 200% of target
was unchanged in 2023. The committee approved
• Excellent results in expanding protection solutions through Allstate an annual cash incentive award of $2,077,500,
Protection Plans. which was 50% of the funding level given negative
net income.
Leadership Team
Long-Term Incentive Award (Equity)
• Talented, experienced and highly engaged senior leadership team with
In 2023, based on its assessment of Mr. Wilson’s
excellent collaboration to achieve strategic priorities. performance in delivering strong business
• Successfully managed senior leadership development to ensure strong results in 2022, his job scope, and market data,
the committee granted him equity awards with
bench strength.
a grant date fair value of $12,869,173, which
• Included in Top 250 Best Managed Companies by the Wall Street was Mr. Wilson’s target equity incentive award
Journal/ Drucker Institute in 2023. opportunity of 900% of salary due to progress
made toward Transformative Growth goals.
Corporate Stewardship
• Allstate recognized as “A Most Ethical Company” by Ethisphere for tenth
(1) Reflects the accounting value of the equity award. This is
consecutive year.
higher than the closing price on the date of grant, which is
• Corporate reputation and leadership of sustainability initiatives are used to calculate the number of performance-based shares
awarded. See footnote 1 to the Summary Compensation Table
highly rated.
on page 89 for more details on the Monte Carlo valuation.
• Strong performance on Inclusive Diversity and Equity strategy.
Board Effectiveness
• Excellent ratings of governance practices, Board diversity and
shareholder engagement. Over half of the Board is diverse.
• Engaged with shareholders holding nearly half of outstanding shares on
governance issues three times each year. Received positive feedback
related to governance and compensation practices.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 83Executive Compensation
2024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Jesse Merten John Dugenske
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer President, Investments and Corporate Strategy
Mr. Merten has primary responsibility for the management of Mr. Dugenske is responsible for the company’s investment
the company’s overall financial condition, system of internal portfolio and corporate strategy.
controls, capital allocation, financial reporting, investor relations,
acquisitions and divestitures, capital market transactions, 2023 Performance and Compensation
discontinued operations and data and analytics. In 2023, Mr. Dugenske’s performance was assessed based on four
criteria: overall corporate results, area of responsibility results,
2023 Performance and Compensation developing and implementing long-term strategy and corporate
In 2023, Mr. Merten’s annual performance was evaluated on four leadership. Compensation was below target funding with no
criteria: overall corporate results, area of responsibility results, discretion applied.
developing and implementing long-term strategy and corporate
• The annual incentive plan funded at 100% based on overall
leadership. Compensation was below target funding with no
corporate results, which was reduced by 50% due to negative
discretion applied.
net income, resulting in an award of 50%.
• The annual incentive plan funded at 100% based on overall
corporate results, which was reduced by 50% due to negative • Investment returns were better than benchmark reflecting
net income, resulting in an award of 50%. proactive risk and return management and tactical
asset allocation.
• Successfully led Transformative Growth cost reduction
initiatives resulting in significant cost savings. • Maximized risk adjusted returns through increased fixed
income durations.
• Successfully managed enterprise capital position.
2023 Compensation 2023 Compensation
Weighting Actual Target Outcome Weighting Actual Target Outcome
21% Salary (Cash) $765,000 N/A N/A 19% Salary (Cash) $870,192 N/A N/A
15% Annual $653,014 150% 50%
13% Annual $478,125 125% 50% Incentive of salary of target
Incentive of salary of target (Cash)
(Cash)
66% Long-Term $2,935,920(1) 325% 100%
66% Long-Term $2,369,463(1) 300% 100% Incentive of salary of target
Incentive of salary of target Award
Award (Equity)
(Equity)
Salary (Cash)
Salary (Cash) The committee approved an increase from $850,000
The committee did not adjust Mr. Merten’s salary of to $875,000 during 2023 based on evaluation of his
$765,000. performance, level of responsibility, experience and target
compensation as compared to the peer group.
Incentive Targets
Mr. Merten’s annual incentive targets did not change in 2023. Incentive Targets
Mr. Merten’s annual incentive target was 125% of salary and Mr. Dugenske’s annual incentive targets did not change in
his target equity incentive was 300% of salary. 2023. Mr. Dugenske’s annual incentive target was 150% of
salary and his target equity incentive was 325% of salary.
Annual Incentive (Cash)
The committee approved an annual cash incentive award Annual Incentive (Cash)
of $478,125 for Mr. Merten, which was 50% of target The committee approved an annual cash incentive award
funding level. of $653,014 for Mr. Dugenske, which was 50% of target
funding level.
Long-Term Incentive Award (Equity)
In 2023, based on its assessment of Mr. Merten’s Long-Term Incentive Award (Equity)
performance in delivering strong business results in 2022, In 2023, based on its assessment of Mr. Dugenske’s
his job scope and added responsibilities, and market data, performance in delivering strong business results in 2022,
the committee granted him equity awards with a grant date his job scope, and market data, the committee granted him
fair value of $2,369,463, which was Mr. Merten’s target equity equity awards with a grant date fair value of $2,935,920,
incentive award. which was Mr. Dugenske’s target equity incentive award.
(1) Reflects the accounting value of the equity award. This is higher than
the closing price on the date of grant, which is used to calculate the
number of performance-based shares awarded. See footnote 1 to the
Summary Compensation Table on page 89 for more details on the Monte
Carlo valuation.
84 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Suren Gupta Mario Rizzo
President, Protection Products and Enterprise Services President, Property-Liability
Mr. Gupta leads Enterprise Services, including real estate Mr. Rizzo leads the Property-Liability businesses, which comprise
and procurement solutions, and in 2023, assumed the role of approximately 90% of Allstate’s total insurance premiums and
President, Protection Products. contract charges.
2023 Performance and Compensation 2023 Performance and Compensation
In 2023, Mr. Gupta’s annual performance was evaluated on four In 2023, Mr. Rizzo’s annual performance was evaluated on four
criteria: overall corporate results, area of responsibility results, criteria: overall corporate results, area of responsibility results,
developing and implementing long-term strategy and corporate developing and implementing long-term strategy and corporate
leadership. Compensation was below target funding with no leadership. Compensation was below target funding with no
discretion applied. discretion applied.
• The annual incentive plan funded at 100% based on overall • The annual incentive plan funded at 100% based on overall
corporate results, which was reduced by 50% due to negative corporate results, which was reduced by 50% due to negative
net income, resulting in an award of 50%.
net income, resulting in an award of 50%.
• Improved Allstate Technology operating performance and
• Executing comprehensive auto profitability improvement plan
developed and deployed new property-liability operating
with significant rate increases and expense reductions.
ecosystem.
• Continued progress on Transformative Growth initiatives
• Successfully transitioned to President, Protection Products and
through new products and cost reductions.
Enterprise Services.
2023 Compensation
2023 Compensation
Weighting Actual Target Outcome
Weighting Actual Target Outcome
19% Salary (Cash) $870,192 N/A N/A
16% Salary (Cash) $745,192 N/A N/A
Annual $653,014 150% 50%
15%
7% Annual $335,555 90% 50% Incentive of salary of target
Incentive of salary of target (Cash)
(Cash)
66% Long-Term $2,935,920(1) 325% 100%
77% Long-Term $3,693,946(1) 250% 196% Incentive of salary of target
Incentive of salary of target Award
Award (Equity)
(Equity)
Salary (Cash)
The committee approved an increase from $850,000 to
$875,000 during 2023 based on Mr. Rizzo’s change in
Salary (Cash) role, evaluation of his performance, level of responsibility,
The committee approved an increase from $725,000 experience and target compensation as compared to the
to $750,000 during 2023 based on evaluation of his peer group.
performance, level of responsibility, experience and target
compensation compared to the peer group. Incentive Targets
Mr. Rizzo’s annual incentive and equity incentive targets
Incentive Targets did not change in 2023. Mr. Rizzo’s annual incentive target
Mr. Gupta’s annual incentive targets did not change in 2023. was 150% of salary and his target equity incentive was 325%
Mr. Gupta’s annual incentive target was 90% of salary and his of salary.
target equity incentive was 250% of salary.
Annual Incentive (Cash)
Annual Incentive (Cash) The committee approved an annual cash incentive award of
The committee approved an annual cash incentive award $653,014 for Mr. Rizzo, which was 50% of target funding level.
of $335,555 for Mr. Gupta, which was 50% of target
funding level. Long-Term Incentive Award (Equity)
In 2023, based on its assessment of Mr. Rizzo’s performance
Long-Term Incentive Award (Equity) in delivering strong business results in 2022, his job scope,
In 2023, based on its assessment of Mr. Gupta’s performance and market data, the committee granted him equity
in delivering strong business results in 2022, his job scope, awards with a grant date fair value of $2,935,920, which was
and market data, the committee granted him equity awards Mr. Rizzo’s target equity incentive award.
using the standard mix of options and PSAs, and also a
special restricted stock unit award valued at $1,500,011, with
an aggregate grant date fair value of $3,693,946.
(1) Reflects the accounting value of the equity award. This is higher than
the closing price on the date of grant, which is used to calculate the
number of performance-based shares awarded. See footnote 1 to the
Summary Compensation Table on page 89 for more details on the Monte
Carlo valuation.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 852024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
5
Other Elements of Compensation
To remain competitive with other employers and to attract, retain, and motivate highly talented executives and other
employees, we offer the benefits listed in the following table.
Named Other Officers and All Full-time and Regular
Benefit or Perquisite Executives Certain Managers Part-time Employees
401(k)(1) and defined benefit pension
Supplemental retirement benefit
Health and welfare benefits(2)
Supplemental long-term disability
Deferred compensation
Financial planning services(3)
Perquisite allowance
Personal use of aircraft, ground transportation, and mobile devices(4)
Tickets to Allstate events(5)
(1) Allstate contributed 100% of the first 2% of eligible pay contributed plus 50% of the next 4% (up to 4% total).
(2) Including medical, dental, vision, life, accidental death and dismemberment, long-term disability, and group legal insurance. For named executives and
other officers, Allstate offers an executive physical program.
(3) Financial planning services are available to senior executives.
(4) The Board encourages the CEO to use our corporate aircraft when it improves his efficiency in managing the company, even if it is for personal purposes.
Personal usage is counted as taxable compensation. In limited circumstances approved by the CEO, other senior executives are permitted to use our
corporate aircraft for personal purposes. In addition to, and separate from, the use of corporate aircraft for personal use, Mr. Wilson can utilize the
company’s arrangements with FlexJet and pay FlexJet for per hour costs at Allstate’s rates. Ground transportation is available to senior executives. Mobile
devices are available to senior executives, other officers, and certain managers and employees depending on their job responsibilities.
(5) Tickets to Allstate-sponsored events or the Allstate Arena are offered as recognition for service.
Retirement Benefits
Each named executive participates in two different defined benefit pension plans. The Allstate Retirement Plan (ARP) is a tax
qualified defined benefit pension plan available to all of our regular full-time and part-time employees who meet certain age
and service requirements. The ARP provides an assured retirement income based on an employee’s level of compensation
and length of service at no cost to the employee. As the ARP is a tax qualified plan, federal tax law limits (1) the amount of an
individual’s compensation that can be used to calculate plan benefits and (2) the total amount of benefits payable to a plan
participant on an annual basis. For certain employees, these limits may result in a lower benefit under the ARP than would have
been payable otherwise. Therefore, the Supplemental Retirement Income Plan (SRIP) is used to provide ARP-eligible employees
whose compensation or benefit amount exceeds the federal limits with an additional defined benefit in an amount equal to what
would have been payable under the ARP if the federal limits did not exist. Effective January 1, 2014, Allstate modified its defined
benefit pension plans so that thereafter, all eligible employees earn pension benefits under a new cash balance formula.
Change in Control and Post-Termination Benefits
Consistent with our compensation objectives, we offer these benefits to attract, motivate, and retain executives. Change in
control benefits and post-termination benefits are designed to maintain alignment between the interests of our executives
and our shareholders in the event of a sale or merger of the company.
The following summarizes Allstate’s change in control benefits for the executive officers:
• The amount of cash severance payable to the CEO and other named executive officers is two times the sum of base
salary and target annual incentive.
• The CIC Plan does not include excise tax gross ups or a lump sum cash pension enhancement.
• In order to receive the cash severance benefits under the CIC Plan, a participant must have been terminated (other than for
cause, death, or disability) or the participant must have terminated employment for good reason (such as adverse changes
in the terms or conditions of employment, including a material reduction in base compensation, a material change in
authority, duties, or responsibilities, or a material change in job location) within two years following a change in control.
• Long-term equity incentive awards vest on an accelerated basis due to a change in control only if the participant has
been terminated (other than for cause, death, or disability) or the participant terminated employment for good reason (as
defined above) within two years following a change in control.
86 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.comClawback Policy
2024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
The change in control and post-termination arrangements that are described in the Potential Payments as a Result of
Termination or Change in Control section on pages 98-99 are not provided exclusively to the named executives. A larger
group of management employees is eligible to receive many of the post-termination benefits described in that section.
Compensation Governance Practices
Equity Ownership Requirements
Instituted in 1996, stock ownership requirements oblige each of the named executives to own Allstate common stock
worth a multiple of base salary to link management and shareholders’ interests. Senior executives, other than the CEO, are
required to own Allstate common stock worth four times their base salary. The CEO’s requirement is eight times his base
salary. The below chart shows the salary multiple requirement and the equity holdings that count toward the requirement.
The current stock ownership requirements apply to 76 of our senior executives and other officers as of December 31, 2023,
and require these executives to hold 75% of net shares received as a result of equity compensation awards until their salary
multiple requirements are met.
STOCK OWNERSHIP AS MULTIPLE OF BASE SALARY AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2023
Stock Ownership Vested in the
Money Option
Named Executive Requirement Actual Value (after-tax)
Mr. Wilson 8 118.5 37.6
Mr. Merten 4 4.4 0.8
Mr. Dugenske 4 14.7 2.4
Mr. Gupta 4 19.4 11.3
Mr. Rizzo 4 9.9 4.7
What Counts Toward the Requirement What Does Not Count Toward the Requirement
% Allstate shares owned personally and beneficially X Unexercised stock options
% Shares held in the Allstate 401(k) Savings Plan X Unvested performance stock awards
% Unvested restricted stock units
Policies on Hedging and Pledging Securities
We have a policy that prohibits all officers, directors, and employees from engaging in transactions in securities issued by
Allstate or any of its subsidiaries that might be considered speculative and engaging in derivative or other transactions
designed to hedge or offset any decrease in market value of the securities held by them, such as selling short or buying or
selling options, puts or calls, and entering into prepaid variable forward contracts, equity swaps or collars. We also have a
policy that prohibits senior executives and directors from pledging Allstate securities as collateral for a loan or holding such
securities in a margin account, unless an exception is granted by the Chair or Lead Director (or by the Lead Director in the
case of a request by the Chair).
Clawback of Compensation
Equity awards granted beginning in 2020 and annual cash incentive awards for performance years beginning in 2020 are
subject to clawback in accordance with the clawback policy approved by the committee. The clawback policy provides for the
recovery of certain equity awards and annual cash incentive awards to executive officers and other executive vice presidents.
If performance results are later subject to a downward adjustment as a result of a financial restatement required due to
material noncompliance with financial reporting requirements, then the paid awards are recalculated with revised results
with the compensation overpayment subject to clawback. The clawback policy also provides for the ability to recover equity
and annual cash incentive awards in certain circumstances if an executive is terminated for improper conduct that leads to a
material adverse impact on the reputation of, or a material adverse economic consequence for, the company.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 872024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Compensation Risk
Allstate’s compensation policies and practices are reviewed by the chief risk officer and structured to reward employees
for successfully executing the company’s strategies and annual operating goals while adhering to our risk and return
principles. Compensation plans provide a balanced mix of cash and equity through annual and long-term incentives that
align with short- and long-term business goals. No one, regardless of eligibility, is guaranteed an award under the annual
cash incentive program. Additionally, multiple performance measures are utilized that correlate with long-term shareholder
value creation and diversify the risk associated with any single performance indicator.
Compensation Committee Report
The committee has reviewed and discussed with management the Compensation Discussion and Analysis contained on
pages 67-88 of this proxy statement. Based on such review and discussions, the committee recommended to the Board
that the Compensation Discussion and Analysis be included in this proxy statement.
The Compensation and Human Capital Committee
Perry M. Traquina (Chair) Richard T. Hume Margaret M. Keane
Andrea Redmond Judith A. Sprieser
88 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.comExecutive Compensation
2024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Summary Compensation Table
The following table summarizes the compensation of the named executives for the last three fiscal years. However, for
Messrs. Merten and Gupta, only the last two fiscal years are shown since this is their second year as a named executive.
Change in
Pension
Value and Total
Non-qualified Without
Non-Equity Deferred Change in
Stock Option Incentive Plan Compensation All Other Pension
Name and Salary Bonus Awards Awards Compensation Earnings Compensation Total Value
Principal Position Year ($) ($) ($)(1) ($)(2) ($) ($)(3) ($)(4) ($) ($)(5)
Thomas J. Wilson 2023 1,385,000 — 7,883,165 4,986,008 2,077,500 — 156,284 16,487,957 16,487,957
Chair, President, 2022 1,385,000 — 6,868,175 4,293,494 2,389,125 — 69,207 15,005,001 15,005,001
and Chief Executive
2021 1,378,943 — 6,335,804 4,304,994 6,286,039 697,929 63,211 19,066,920 18,368,991
Officer
Jesse Merten 2023 765,000 — 1,451,458 918,005 478,125 65,351 26,970 3,704,909 3,639,558
Executive Vice 2022 594,178 — 905,628 556,708 346,233 22,648 25,760 2,451,155 2,428,507
President and Chief
Financial Officer
John Dugenske 2023 870,192 — 1,798,427 1,137,493 653,014 89,737 26,760 4,575,623 4,485,886
President, 2022 844,808 — 1,705,240 1,065,994 729,077 86,745 25,760 4,457,624 4,370,879
Investments and
2021 816,539 — 1,580,935 1,074,195 1,861,129 68,382 25,160 5,426,340 5,357,958
Corporate Strategy
Suren Gupta 2023 745,192 — 2,843,954 849,992 335,555 83,579 45,230 4,903,502 4,819,923
President, 2022 720,673 — 1,119,824 699,998 373,163 63,711 37,510 3,014,879 2,951,168
Protection Products
and Enterprise
Services
Mario Rizzo 2023 870,192 — 1,798,427 1,137,493 653,014 239,380 27,460 4,725,966 4,486,586
President, Property- 2022 793,750 — 1,490,699 928,419 603,665 — 26,250 3,842,783 3,842,783
Liability
2021 748,616 — 1,349,579 917,031 1,478,500 — 25,790 4,519,516 4,519,516
(1) This amount reflects an accounting expense and does not correspond to actual value that will be realized by the named executives. The value of PSAs
assumes target-level performance, which is the probable achievement level of the performance conditions. The number of PSAs granted in 2023 to
each named executive is provided in the Grants of Plan-Based Awards table on page 91. The value of the PSAs granted in 2023 if maximum corporate
performance were to be achieved is as follows: Mr. Wilson $13,118,588, Mr. Merten $2,415,411, Mr. Dugenske $2,992,811, Mr. Gupta $2,236,492, Mr. Rizzo
$2,992,811 and the aggregate grant date fair value of PSAs granted in 2023, 2022, and 2021, is computed in accordance with Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718 (ASC 718). The fair value of PSAs that do not include a market-based condition is
based on the final closing price of Allstate’s common stock on the grant date, which reflects the payment of expected future dividends. The fair value of
the PSA component with a market-based condition is measured on the grant date using a Monte Carlo simulation model. The market-based condition
measures the company’s TSR relative to the TSR of peer companies, expressed in terms of the company’s TSR percentile rank among the peer companies,
over a three calendar-year performance period. The Monte Carlo simulation model uses a risk-neutral framework to model future stock price movements
based upon the risk-free rate of return at the time of grant, volatilities of the company and the peer companies, and expected term assumed to be equal to
the remaining measurement period. The market value in part reflects the payment of expected future dividends.
For the year ended December 31, 2023, the 2023 PSA component with a market-based condition assumes a risk-free rate of 1.7%, volatility of 24.8%,
average peer volatility of 29.9% and an expected term of 2.9 years. See Note 19 to our audited financial statements for 2023.
(2) The aggregate grant date fair value of option awards is computed in accordance with FASB ASC 718. The fair value of each option award is estimated on the
grant date using a binomial lattice model and the assumptions (see Note 19 to our audited financial statements for 2023) as set forth in the following table:
2023 2022 2021
Weighted average expected term 5.8 years 5.9 years 7.5 years
Expected volatility 20.0%-31.6% 19.8%-29.9% 16.5%-28.8%
Weighted average volatility 24.9% 23.2% 23.0%
Expected dividends 2.4%-3.3% 2.5%-3.0% 2.0%-3.0%
Weighted average expected dividends 2.6% 2.8% 3.1%
Risk-free rate 3.3%-5.6% 0%-4.8% 0%-1.7%
This amount reflects an accounting expense and does not correspond to actual value that will be realized by the named executives. The number of options
granted in 2023 to each named executive is provided in the Grants of Plan-Based Awards table on page 91.
(3) Amounts reflect the aggregate increase in actuarial value of the pension benefits as set forth in the Pension Benefits table, accrued during 2023, 2022,
and 2021. These are benefits under the Allstate Retirement Plan (ARP) and the Supplemental Retirement Income Plan (SRIP). Non-qualified deferred
compensation earnings are not reflected since our Deferred Compensation Plan does not provide above-market earnings. The pension plan measurement
date is December 31. (See Note 18 to our audited financial statements for 2023.) For 2023, the change in pension value was negative $1,769,213 for
Mr. Wilson. For 2022, the change in pension value was negative $3,130,051 for Mr. Wilson and negative $726,008 for Mr. Rizzo. For 2021, the change in
pension value was negative $35,112 for Mr. Rizzo. These negative numbers are not reflected in the amounts disclosed above.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 892024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
The following table reflects the respective change in the actuarial value of the benefits provided to the named executives in 2023:
ARP SRIP
Name ($) ($)
Mr. Wilson (90,718) (1,678,495)
Mr. Merten 20,697 44,654
Mr. Dugenske 15,962 73,775
Mr. Gupta 20,145 63,434
Mr. Rizzo 106,740 132,640
Interest rates and other assumptions can have a significant impact on the change in pension value from one year to another.
(4) The following table describes the incremental cost of other benefits provided in 2023 that are included in the “All Other Compensation” column.
Personal Use 401(k) Total All Other
of Aircraft(a) Match(b) Other(c) Compensation
Name ($) ($) ($) ($)
Mr. Wilson 128,604 13,200 14,480 156,284
Mr. Merten — 13,200 13,770 26,970
Mr. Dugenske — 13,200 13,560 26,760
Mr. Gupta — 13,200 32,030 45,230
Mr. Rizzo — 13,200 14,260 27,460
(a) When applicable, the amount reported for personal use of aircraft is based on the incremental cost method, which is calculated based on Allstate’s
average variable costs per flight hour. Variable costs include fuel, maintenance, on-board catering, landing/ramp fees, and other miscellaneous variable
costs. The total annual variable costs are divided by the annual number of flight hours flown by the aircraft to derive an average variable cost per flight
hour. This average variable cost per flight hour is then multiplied by the flight hours flown for personal use to derive the incremental cost. This method
of calculating the incremental cost excludes fixed costs that do not change based on usage, such as pilots’ and other employees’ salaries, costs incurred
in purchasing the aircraft, and non-trip-related hangar expenses. Separate from the use of corporate aircraft for personal use, Mr. Wilson may utilize the
company’s arrangements with FlexJet and pays FlexJet directly for costs upon use.
(b) Each of the named executives participated in our 401(k) plan during 2023. The amount shown is the amount allocated to their accounts as employer
matching contributions.
(c) “Other” consists of personal benefits and perquisites related to mobile devices, financial planning, ground transportation, executive physical related
items and supplemental long-term disability coverage. There were no incremental costs for the use of mobile devices or executive physical related
items. We provide supplemental long-term disability coverage to all regular full- and part-time employees who participate in the long-term disability
plan and whose annual earnings exceed the level that produces the maximum monthly benefit provided by the long-term disability plan. This coverage
is self-insured (funded and paid for by Allstate when obligations are incurred). No obligations for the named executives were incurred in 2023, and
therefore, no incremental cost is reflected in the table.
(5) We have included an additional column to show total compensation minus the change in pension value. The amounts reported in this column may differ
substantially from, and are not a substitute for, the amounts reported in the “Total” column required under SEC rules. The change in pension value is
subject to several external variables, including interest rates, that are not related to company or individual performance and may differ significantly based
on the formula under which the benefits were earned.
90 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.comGrants of Plan-Based Awards
at Fiscal Year-end 2023
2024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Grants of Plan-Based Awards at Fiscal Year-end 2023
The following table provides information about awards granted to our named executives during fiscal year 2023.
All Other
Option All Other
Awards: Stock
Estimated Possible Estimated Future
Number of Exercise or Awards:
Payouts Under Non-Equity Payouts Under Equity Grant Date
Securities Base Price number of
Incentive Plan Awards(2) Incentive Plan Awards(3) Fair Value ($)(5)
Underlying of Option shares of
Grant Plan Threshold Target Maximum Threshold Target Maximum Options Awards stock or Stock Option
Name Date Awards(1) ($) ($) ($) (#) (#) (#) (#) ($/Sh)(4) units (#) Awards Awards
Mr. Wilson Annual cash 2,077,500 4,155,000 10,000,000
incentive
2/16/2023 PSAs 0 54,551 109,102 7,883,165
2/16/2023 Stock options 157,835 137.10 4,986,008
Mr. Merten Annual cash 478,125 956,250 3,825,000
incentive
2/16/2023 PSAs 0 10,044 20,088 1,451,458
2/16/2023 Stock options 29,060 137.10 918,005
Mr. Dugenske Annual cash 653,014 1,306,028 5,224,110
incentive
2/16/2023 PSAs 0 12,445 24,890 1,798,427
2/16/2023 Stock options 36,008 137.10 1,137,493
Mr. Gupta Annual cash 335,555 671,109 2,684,437
incentive
2/16/2023 PSAs 0 9,300 18,600 1,343,943
2/16/2023 Stock options 26,907 137.10 849,992
9/6/2023 RSUs 13,898 1,500,011
Mr. Rizzo Annual cash 653,014 1,306,028 5,224,110
incentive
2/16/2023 PSAs 0 12,445 24,890 1,798,427
2/16/2023 Stock options 36,008 137.10 1,137,493
(1) Awards granted under the Annual Executive Incentive Plan and the 2019 Equity Incentive Plan. An explanation of the amount of salary and bonus in
proportion to total compensation can be found under the Compensation Elements and Compensation Decisions for 2023 captions on pages 74 and
83-85.
(2) The amounts in these columns consist of the threshold, target, and maximum annual cash incentive awards for the named executives. The threshold
amount for each named executive is 50% of target, as the minimum amount payable (subject to individual performance) if threshold performance is
achieved. If the threshold is not achieved, the payment to the named executives would be zero. The target amount is based upon achievement of the
performance measures listed under the Annual Cash Incentive Awards caption on page 75. The maximum amount is equal to 200% of target plus an
additional individual performance factor of 200% of plan funding to recognize extraordinary performance, subject to the maximum of $10 million that may
be paid to any participant for any fiscal year under the Annual Executive Incentive Plan. For a description of the ranges of performance established by the
committee for the 2023 annual incentive, see page 78.
(3) The amounts shown in these columns reflect the threshold, target, and maximum PSAs for the named executives. The threshold amount for each named
executive is 0% payout. The target and maximum amounts are based upon achievement of the performance measures listed under the PSA Ranges of
Performance caption on page 81.
(4) The exercise price of each option is equal to the closing sale price on the NYSE on the grant date or, if there was no such sale on the grant date, then on the
last previous day on which there was a sale.
(5) Related to the February 16, 2023 grants, the aggregate grant date fair value of the PSAs was $144.51 and for stock option awards was $31.59. Related to the
September 6, 2023 grant for Mr. Gupta, the aggregate grant date fair value of the RSUs was $107.93. Aggregate grant date fair value is computed in accordance
with FASB ASC 718. The assumptions used in the valuation are discussed in footnotes 1 and 2 to the Summary Compensation Table on page 89.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 912024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Performance Stock Awards (“PSAs”)
PSAs represent our promise to transfer shares of common stock in the future if certain performance measures are met.
For the awards granted in 2023, the actual number of PSAs that vest will vary from 0% to 200% of target PSAs based on
Average Performance Net Income ROE (50%), Relative TSR (30%), Transformative Growth (10%) and Inclusive Diversity
and Equity (10%) results for a three-year measurement period. For a definition of how those measures are calculated, see
pages 79-82. Vested PSAs will be converted into shares of Allstate common stock and dividend equivalents accrued on
these shares will be paid in cash. No dividend equivalents will be paid prior to vesting. PSAs will vest following the end of
the three-year performance cycle if the performance conditions are met, subject to continued employment (other than in
the event of death, disability, retirement, or a qualifying termination following a change in control).
Stock Options
Stock Options represent an opportunity to buy shares of Allstate common stock at a fixed exercise price at a future date.
Stock Options align the interests of executives with long-term shareholder value since the stock price must appreciate
from the grant date for the executives to earn compensation.
Under our shareholder-approved equity incentive plan, the exercise price cannot be less than the closing price of a share
on the grant date. Stock option repricing is not permitted.
All Stock Option awards have been made in the form of non-qualified stock options. The options granted to the named
executives become exercisable over three years. One-third of the stock options become exercisable on the anniversary of
the grant date for each of the three years subject to continued employment through each anniversary date, except in the
event of retirement, death, disability or a qualifying termination following change in control. All of the options expire ten
years from the grant date, unless an earlier date has been approved by the committee in connection with certain change in
control situations or other special circumstances such as termination, death, or disability.
92 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.comOutstanding Equity Awards
at Fiscal Year-end 2023
2024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-end 2023
The following table summarizes the outstanding equity awards of the named executives as of December 31, 2023.
Option Awards(1) Stock Awards
Equity
Equity Incentive
Incentive Plan Awards:
Plan Awards: Market or
Market Number of Payout Value
Number of Number of Number Value of Unearned of Unearned
Securities Securities of Shares Shares or Shares, Shares, Units,
Underlying Underlying or Units of Units of Units, or or Other
Unexercised Unexercised Option Stock That Stock That Other Rights Rights That
Options Options Exercise Option Stock Have Not Have Not That Have Have Not
Option Exercisable Unexercisable Price Expiration Award Vested Vested Not Vested Vested
Name Grant Date (#)(2) (#)(2) ($) Date Grant Date (#)(3) ($)(4) (#)(5) ($)(4)
Mr. Wilson 02/18/2015 294,494 70.71 02/18/2025
02/11/2016 295,324 62.32 02/11/2026
02/09/2017 248,447 78.35 02/09/2027
02/22/2018 227,406 92.80 02/22/2028
02/08/2019 269,746 92.46 02/08/2029
02/19/2020 240,710 124.26 02/19/2030
02/18/2021 184,803 92,402 105.08 02/18/2031 02/18/2021 19,050 2,666,619
02/17/2022 68,215 136,432 122.64 02/17/2032 02/17/2022 105,026 14,701,539
02/16/2023 — 157,835 137.10 02/16/2033 02/16/2023 109,102 15,272,098
Mr. Merten 01/04/2018 700 100.80 01/04/2028
02/19/2020 19,672 124.26 02/19/2030
02/18/2021 19,458 9,730 105.08 02/18/2031 02/18/2021 2,006 280,800
02/17/2022 7,626 15,253 122.64 02/17/2032 02/17/2022 11,742 1,643,645
10/05/2022 867 1,735 133.00 10/05/2032 10/05/2022 1,730 242,165
02/16/2023 — 29,060 137.10 02/16/2033 02/16/2023 20,088 2,811,918
Mr. Dugenske 02/08/2019 20,081 92.46 02/08/2029
02/19/2020 55,055 124.26 02/19/2030
02/18/2021 46,112 23,057 105.08 02/18/2031 02/18/2021 4,754 665,465
02/17/2022 16,936 33,874 122.64 02/17/2032 02/17/2022 26,076 3,650,118
02/16/2023 — 36,008 137.10 02/16/2033 02/16/2023 24,890 3,484,102
Mr. Gupta 02/18/2015 45,775 70.71 02/18/2025
02/11/2016 48,400 62.32 02/11/2026
02/09/2017 41,408 78.35 02/09/2027
02/22/2018 38,732 92.80 02/22/2028
02/08/2019 42,838 92.46 02/08/2029
02/19/2020 36,066 124.26 02/19/2030
02/18/2021 29,956 14,978 105.08 02/18/2031 02/18/2021 3,088 432,258
02/17/2022 11,121 22,244 122.64 02/17/2032 02/17/2022 17,124 2,397,018
02/16/2023 — 26,907 137.10 02/16/2033 02/16/2023 18,600 2,603,628
09/06/2023 13,898 1,945,442
Mr. Rizzo 02/22/2018 49,296 92.80 02/22/2028
02/08/2019 56,225 92.46 02/08/2029
02/19/2020 47,213 124.26 02/19/2030
02/18/2021 39,366 19,683 105.08 02/18/2031 02/18/2021 4,058 568,039
02/17/2022 14,299 28,599 122.64 02/17/2032 02/17/2022 22,016 3,081,800
10/05/2022 321 643 133.00 10/05/2032 10/05/2022 640 89,587
02/16/2023 — 36,008 137.10 02/16/2033 02/16/2023 24,890 3,484,102
(1) The options vest over three years: one-third will become exercisable on the anniversary of the grant date for each of the three years. The exercise price of
each option is equal to the closing price of Allstate’s common stock on the grant date.
(2) The aggregate value and aggregate number of exercisable and unexercisable in-the-money options as of December 31, 2023, for each of the named
executives are as follows:
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 93Option Exercises and
Stock Vested During 2023
2024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Exercisable Unexercisable
Aggregate Aggregate Aggregate Aggregate
Number Value Number Value
Name (#) ($) (#) ($)
Mr. Wilson 1,829,145 93,610,029 386,669 6,045,125
Mr. Merten 48,323 1,154,041 55,778 699,867
Mr. Dugenske 138,184 3,722,693 92,939 1,495,768
Mr. Gupta 294,296 15,149,851 64,129 985,935
Mr. Rizzo 206,720 7,363,844 84,933 1,291,035
(3) The PSAs vested in one installment on the third anniversary of the grant date, February 19, 2024.
(4) Amount is based on the closing price of our common stock of $139.98 on December 29, 2023.
(5) The PSAs vest in one installment on the third anniversary of the grant date. The number of shares that ultimately vest may range from 0 to 200% of the
target depending on actual performance during the three-year performance period. For a description of the PSA program and the performance measures
used, see pages 79-82 and page 92. The number of PSAs reflected in this column for the 2022 and 2023 awards is the number of shares that would vest if
the maximum level of performance is achieved. Final payouts under the PSAs will not be known until the respective performance period is completed.
Option Exercises and Stock Vested During 2023
The following table summarizes the options exercised by the named executives during 2023 and the PSAs or restricted
stock units that vested during 2023.
Option Awards Stock Awards
Number of Shares Value Realized Number of Shares Value Realized
Acquired on Exercise on Exercise Acquired on Vesting on Vesting
Name (#) ($)(1) (#) ($)(2)
Mr. Wilson 309,237 25,369,803 65,937 8,904,792
Mr. Merten 38,659 1,610,968 5,389 727,784
Mr. Dugenske 0 0 15,081 2,036,689
Mr. Gupta 20,241 1,716,842 9,879 1,334,159
Mr. Rizzo 0 0 12,933 1,746,602
(1) The dollar amount realized upon exercise of the option is determined based on the difference between the market price of the underlying securities at
exercise and the exercise price of the options.
(2) The dollar amount realized upon vesting is determined based on the market value underlying the shares on the vesting date.
Retirement Benefits
The following table provides information about the pension plans in which the named executives participate. Each of the
named executives participates in the Allstate Retirement Plan (ARP) and the Supplemental Retirement Income Plan (SRIP).
PENSION BENEFITS
Present Value
Number of Years of Accumulated Payments During
Plan Credited Service Benefit Last Fiscal Year
Name Name (#) ($)(1)(2) ($)
Mr. Wilson ARP 30.8 1,309,144 0
SRIP 30.8 19,018,002 0
Mr. Merten ARP 12.0 104,187 0
SRIP 12.0 207,304 0
Mr. Dugenske ARP 6.8 58,682 0
SRIP 6.8 388,336 0
Mr. Gupta ARP 12.7 123,941 0
SRIP 12.7 543,773 0
Mr. Rizzo ARP 34.9 1,087,352 0
SRIP 34.9 1,031,665 0
94 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
(1) These amounts are estimates and do not necessarily reflect the actual amounts that will be paid to the named executives, which will be known only at the
time they become eligible for payment. The present value of the accumulated benefit was determined using the same measurement date (December 31,
2023) and material assumptions that we use for year-end financial reporting purposes, except that we made no assumptions for early termination, disability,
or pre-retirement mortality. Other assumptions include the following:
• Retirement at the normal retirement age as defined in the plans (age 65), or immediately for participants over age 65 at the measurement date.
• Discount rate of 5.40%.
Other assumptions for the final average pay formula include the following:
• ARP benefits are assumed to be paid 80% as a lump sum, 10% as a life annuity, and 10% as a joint and survivor annuity.
• ARP and SRIP benefits are converted to a lump sum. For participants assumed to commence their benefits in 2024, the assumed lump-sum conversion
interest rates are based on 100% of the average corporate bond segmented yield curve from August 2023. Specifically, the rates are 5.45% for the first
5 years, 5.52% for the next 15 years, and 5.43% thereafter. For participants assumed to commence their benefits after 2024, the lump-sum conversion
interest rate is assumed to be equal to the discount rate of 5.40%.
• Lump-sum calculations were performed using the 2024 and estimated 2025 Internal Revenue Code Section 417(e)(3) mortality tables with a static
projection from 2025 to each future year using the adjusted MP-2021 projection scale.
• Annuity calculations were performed using the Pri-2012 white-collar mortality table for healthy retirees projected generationally from 2012 with the
MP-2021 projection scale.
Other assumptions for the cash balance formula include the following:
• ARP benefits are assumed to be paid as a lump sum.
• Accounts were projected to retirement using the actual interest crediting rate for ARP and SRIP for 2024, specifically the average 30-year Treasury rate
from August .28%. After 2024, accounts are projected using the spot 30-year Treasury rate as of December 31, .03%.
See Note 18 to our audited financial statements for 2023 for additional information.
(2) The following table shows the lump-sum present value of the non-qualified pension benefits for each named executive earned through December 31, 2023,
if the named executive’s employment terminated on that date.
Plan Lump Sum Amount
Name Name ($)
Mr. Wilson SRIP 19,018,002
Mr. Merten SRIP 253,301
Mr. Dugenske SRIP 425,487
Mr. Gupta SRIP 558,676
Mr. Rizzo SRIP 1,110,038
The amount shown is based on the lump-sum methodology used by ARP and SRIP in 2024. The lump-sum conversion interest rates are based on 100% of
the average corporate bond segmented yield curve from August 2023. Specifically, the rates are 5.45% for the first 5 years, 5.52% for the next 15 years, and
5.43% thereafter. The mortality table used for 2024 is the Internal Revenue Code Section 417(e)(3) mortality table for 2024.
Allstate Retirement Plan (ARP)
Contributions to the ARP are made entirely by Allstate and are paid into a trust fund from which benefits are paid. Before
January 1, 2014, ARP participants earned benefits under one of two formulas (final average pay or cash balance) based
on their date of hire or their choice at the time Allstate introduced the cash balance formula. In order to better align our
pension benefits with market practices, provide future pension benefits more equitably to Allstate employees, and reduce
costs, final average pay benefits were frozen as of December 31, 2013. As of January 1, 2014, all eligible participants earn
benefits under a cash balance formula only.
Final Average Pay Formula — Frozen as of 12/31/13
Benefits under the final average pay formula were earned and are stated in the form of a straight life annuity payable at the
normal retirement age of 65. Messrs. Rizzo and Wilson have earned final average pay benefits equal to the sum of a Base
Benefit and an Additional Benefit. The Base Benefit equals 1.55% of the participant’s average annual compensation, multiplied
by credited service after 1988 through 2013. The Additional Benefit equals 0.65% of the amount of the participant’s average
annual compensation that exceeds the participant’s covered compensation, multiplied by credited service after 1988 through
2013. Covered compensation is the average of the maximum annual salary taxable for Social Security over the 35-year period
ending the year the participant would reach Social Security retirement age. Mr. Wilson is eligible for an unreduced retirement
benefit since he remained in service past his normal retirement age of 65. Mr. Rizzo is eligible for a reduced early retirement
benefit that would reduce his Base Benefit by 4.8% for each year of early payment before age 65 and his Additional Benefit
by 8% for each year of early payment from age 62 to age 65 and 4% for each year of early payment from age 55 to age 62,
prorated on a monthly basis based on age at the date payments begin.
Cash Balance Formula — For All Participants Beginning 1/1/14
All named executives earned benefits under the cash balance formula in 2023. Under this formula, participants receive pay
credits while employed at Allstate, based on a percentage of eligible annual compensation and years of service, plus interest
credits. Pay credits are allocated to a hypothetical account in an amount equal to 3% to 5% of eligible annual compensation,
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 952024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
depending on years of vesting service. Interest credits are allocated to the hypothetical account based on the interest
crediting rate in effect for that plan year as published by the Internal Revenue Service. The interest crediting rate is set
annually and is currently based on the average yield for 30-year U.S. Treasury securities for August of the prior year.
Supplemental Retirement Income Plan (SRIP)
SRIP benefits are generally determined using a two-step process: (1) determine the amount that would be payable under
the ARP formula(s) specified above if Internal Revenue Code limits did not apply, then (2) reduce the amount described
in (1) by the amount actually payable under the applicable ARP formula(s). The normal retirement date under the SRIP is
age 65. If eligible for early retirement under the ARP, the employee also is eligible for early retirement under the SRIP. SRIP
benefits are not funded and are paid out of Allstate’s general assets.
Credited Service
No additional service credit beyond service with Allstate or its predecessors is granted under the ARP or the SRIP to any
of the named executives. Mr. Wilson has combined service with Allstate and its former parent company, Sears, Roebuck
and Co., of 30.8 years. As a result, a portion of his retirement benefits will be paid from the Sears pension plan. Consistent
with the pension benefits of other employees with Sears service who were employed by Allstate at the time of the spin-off
from Sears in 1995, Mr. Wilson’s final average pay pension benefits under the ARP and the SRIP are calculated as if he had
worked his combined Sears-Allstate career with Allstate through December 31, 2013, and then are reduced by amounts
earned under the Sears pension plan.
Eligible Compensation
Under both the ARP and SRIP, eligible compensation consists of salary, annual cash incentive awards, and certain other
forms of compensation, but does not include long-term cash incentive awards or income related to equity awards.
Compensation used to determine benefits under the ARP is limited in accordance with the Internal Revenue Code. For final
average pay benefits, average annual compensation is the average compensation of the five highest consecutive calendar
years within the last ten consecutive calendar years through 2013.
Payment Options
Payment options under the ARP include a lump sum, straight life annuity, and various survivor annuity options. The
lump sum under the final average pay benefit is calculated in accordance with the applicable interest rate and mortality
assumptions as required under the Internal Revenue Code. The lump-sum payment under the cash balance benefit is
generally equal to a participant’s account balance. Payments from the SRIP are paid in the form of a lump sum using the
same interest rate and mortality assumptions used under the ARP.
Timing of Payments
Eligible employees are vested in the normal ARP and SRIP retirement benefits on the earlier of the completion of three
years of service or upon reaching age 65.
Final average pay benefits are payable at age 65. A participant with final average pay benefits may be entitled to a reduced early
retirement benefit on or after age 55 if he or she terminates employment after completing 20 or more years of vesting service.
A participant earning cash balance benefits who terminates employment with at least three years of vesting service is
entitled to a lump sum benefit equal to his or her cash balance account balance.
The following SRIP payment dates assume a retirement or termination date of December 31, 2023:
• Mr. Wilson’s SRIP benefits earned prior to 2005 would become payable as early as January 1, 2024. Benefits earned after
2004 would be paid on July 1, 2024, or following death.
• Messrs. Dugenske’s, Gupta’s and Rizzo’s SRIP benefits would be paid on July 1, 2024, or following death.
• Mr. Merten’s SRIP benefits would be paid on January 1, 2030, or following death.
96 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.comNon-Qualified Deferred Executive Compensation
Compensation at Fiscal
Year-end 2023
2024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation at Fiscal Year-end 2023
The following table summarizes the non-qualified deferred compensation contributions, earnings, and account balances of
our named executives in 2023. All amounts relate to The Allstate Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan.
Aggregate Aggregate
Executive Registrant Aggregate Withdrawals/ Balance
Contributions Contributions Earnings in Distributions in at Last
in Last FY in Last FY Last FY Last FY FYE
Name ($)(1) ($) ($)(2) ($) ($)(2)
Mr. Wilson 0 0 304,566 0 1,732,519
Mr. Merten 0 0 0 0 0
Mr. Dugenske 0 0 0 0 0
Mr. Gupta 0 0 0 0 0
Mr. Rizzo 382,812 0 399,582 0 3,365,378
(1) For Mr. Rizzo, Executive Contributions were previously reported in the Salary column for 2023 and the Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation column for
2022 in the Summary Compensation Table.
(2) Aggregate earnings were not included in the named executive’s compensation in the last completed fiscal year in the Summary Compensation Table.
In order to remain competitive with other employers, we allow the named executives and other employees whose annual
compensation exceeds the amount specified in the Internal Revenue Code ($330,000 in 2023), to defer under the Deferred
Compensation Plan up to 80% of their salary and/or up to 100% of their annual cash incentive award that exceeds the
Internal Revenue Code limit. Allstate does not match participant deferrals and does not guarantee a stated rate of return.
Deferrals under the Deferred Compensation Plan are credited with earnings or debited for losses based on the results
of the notional investment option or options selected by the participants. The notional investment options available in
2023 under the Deferred Compensation Plan are: stable value, S&P 500, international equity, Russell 2000, mid-cap, and
bond funds. Under the Deferred Compensation Plan, deferrals are not actually invested in these funds, but instead are
credited with earnings or debited for losses based on the funds’ investment returns. Because the rate of return is based
on actual investment measures in our 401(k) plan, no above-market earnings are credited, recorded, or paid. Our Deferred
Compensation Plan and 401(k) plan allow participants to change their investment elections daily, subject to certain
trading restrictions.
The Deferred Compensation Plan is unfunded. This means that Allstate does not set aside funds for the plan in a trust or
otherwise. Participants have only the rights of general unsecured creditors and may lose their balances in the event of the
company’s bankruptcy. Account balances are 100% vested at all times.
An irrevocable distribution election is required before making any deferrals into the Deferred Compensation Plan. Generally,
a named executive may elect to begin receiving a distribution of his or her account balance immediately upon separation
from service or in one of the first through fifth years after separation from service or, for amounts deferred on or after
January 1, 2018, in the fifth year after separation from service. The earliest distribution date for deferrals made on or after
January 1, 2005, and earnings and losses on these amounts, is six months following separation from service. The named
executive may elect to receive payment in a lump sum or in annual cash installment payments over a period of two to ten
years, or, for amounts deferred on or after January 1, 2018, over a period of up to five years. In addition, a named executive
may elect an in-service withdrawal of his or her entire balance earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005, and earnings
and losses on these amounts, subject to forfeiture of 10% of such balance. A named executive may also elect an in-service
withdrawal of all or a portion of the deferrals he or she made on or after January 1, 2018, together with earnings and losses
on those amounts. Upon proof of an unforeseen emergency, a plan participant may be allowed to access certain funds in a
deferred compensation account earlier than the dates specified above.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 972024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Potential Payments as a Result of Termination or Change in
Control (“CIC”)
The following table lists the compensation and benefits that Allstate would generally provide to the named executives
in various scenarios involving a termination of employment, other than compensation and benefits generally available to
salaried employees. The table describes equity granting practices for the 2023 equity incentive awards. Relevant prior
practices are described in the footnotes.
Termination Scenarios
Compensation Termination due to
Elements Termination(1) Retirement Change in Control(2) Death Disability
Base Salary Ceases Ceases immediately Ceases immediately Ceases Ceases
immediately immediately immediately
Severance Pay None None Lump sum is equal to None None
two times salary and
annual incentive at
target(3)
Annual Incentive(4) Forfeited Prorated for the year and Prorated at target Prorated for the Prorated for
subject to discretionary (reduced by any year and subject the year and
adjustments(5) amounts actually paid) to discretionary subject to
adjustments discretionary
adjustments
Stock Options(4)(6) Unvested Awards granted more Awards vest upon Awards vest Awards vest
are forfeited, than 12 months before, qualifying termination immediately immediately
vested expire and pro rata portion of after a CIC and expire at and expire at
at the earlier award granted within 12 earlier of two earlier of two
of three months of retirement, years or normal years or normal
months continue to vest. All expiration expiration
or normal expire at earlier of
expiration five years or normal
expiration(7)
Restricted Stock Forfeited Awards granted more Awards vest upon Awards vest Awards
Units(4)(6) than 12 months before, qualifying termination and are payable vest and
and pro rata portion of after a CIC immediately are payable
awards granted within immediately
12 months of retirement,
continue to vest(7)
Performance Stock Forfeited Awards granted more Awards vest based on Awards vest Awards
Awards(4)(6) than 12 months before, performance upon a and are payable vest and
and pro rata portion of qualifying termination immediately(9) are payable
awards granted within after a CIC(8) immediately(9)
12 months of retirement,
continue to vest and are
paid out based on actual
performance(7)
Non-Qualified Distributions Distributions commence Immediately payable Distributions Participant
Pension Benefits(10) commence per plan upon a CIC for Mr. commence per may request
per plan Wilson; distributions plan payment if age
commence per plan for 50 or older
other NEOs
98 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Termination Scenarios
Compensation Termination due to
Elements Termination(1) Retirement Change in Control(2) Death Disability
Deferred Distributions Distributions commence Immediately payable Payable within Distributions
Compensation(11) commence per participant election upon a CIC for Mr. 90 days commence
per Wilson; distributions per participant
participant commence election
election per participant
election for other
participating NEOs
Health, Welfare None None Outplacement services None Supplemental
and Other Benefits provided; lump sum Long Term
payment equal to Disability
additional cost of benefits
welfare benefits if enrolled
continuation coverage in basic
for 18 months(12) long-term
disability plan
(1) Includes both voluntary and involuntary termination other than due to retirement, change in control, death or disability. Examples of involuntary termination
independent of a change in control include performance-related terminations; terminations for employee dishonesty and violation of Allstate rules,
regulations, or policies; and terminations resulting from lack of work, rearrangement of work, or reduction in force.
(2) In general, a change in control is one or more of the following events: (1) any person acquires 30% or more of the combined voting power of Allstate
common stock within a 12-month period; (2) any person acquires more than 50% of the combined voting power of Allstate common stock; (3) certain
changes are made to the composition of the Board; or (4) the consummation of a merger, reorganization, or similar transaction. These triggers were
selected because any of these could cause a substantial change in management in a widely held company the size of Allstate. Effective upon a change in
control, the named executives become subject to covenants prohibiting solicitation of employees, customers, and suppliers until one year after termination
of employment. If a named executive incurs legal fees or other expenses in an effort to enforce the change in control plan, Allstate will reimburse the named
executive for these expenses unless it is established by a court that the named executive had no reasonable basis for the claim or acted in bad faith.
(3) Under the change in control plan, severance benefits would be payable if a named executive’s employment is terminated either by Allstate without cause
or by the executive for good reason as defined in the plan during the two years following the change in control. Cause means the named executive has
been convicted of a felony or other crime involving fraud or dishonesty, has willfully or intentionally breached the restrictive covenants in the change in
control plan, has habitually neglected his or her duties, or has engaged in willful or reckless material misconduct in the performance of his or her duties.
Good reason includes a material diminution in a named executive’s base compensation, authority, duties, or responsibilities, or a material change in the
geographic location where the named executive performs services.
(4) Named executives who receive an equity award or an annual cash incentive award after May 19, 2009, are subject to a non-solicitation covenant while they
are employed and for the one-year period following termination of employment. If a named executive violates the non-solicitation covenant, to the extent
permitted by applicable law, compensation provided to the named executive (including cancellation of outstanding awards or recovery of all or a portion of
any gain realized upon vesting, settlement, or exercise of an award or recovery of all or a portion of any proceeds resulting from any disposition of shares
received pursuant to an award) may be recovered if the vesting, settlement, or exercise of the award or the receipt of the sale proceeds occurred during the
12-month period prior to the violation.
(5) Retirement for purposes of the Annual Executive Incentive Plan is defined as termination on or after the date the named executive attains age 55 with at
least 10 years of service or age 60 with five years of service.
(6) Named executives who receive an equity award on or after May 21, 2013, that remains subject to a period of restriction or other performance or vesting
condition are subject to a non-compete provision for the one-year period following termination of employment. If a named executive violates the non-
competition covenant, to the extent permitted by applicable law, any or all of the named executive’s outstanding awards that remain subject to a period of
restriction or other performance or vesting condition as of the date on which the named executive first violated the non-competition provision may
be canceled.
(7) Retirement definitions and treatment for purposes of stock options, restricted stock units, and performance stock awards are as follows:
Definition Normal Retirement: age 55 with 10 years of service or age 60 with at least five years of service
Treatment • Unvested awards not granted within 12 months of retirement continue to vest.
• Prorated portion of unvested awards granted within 12 months of the retirement date continue to vest.
• Vested stock options expire at the earlier of five years from the date of retirement or the expiration date of the option.
(8) The committee will determine the number of PSAs that continue to vest based on actual performance up to the change in control.
(9) For open cycles, the payout is based on the target number of PSAs.
(10) See the Retirement Benefits section for further detail on non-qualified pension benefits and timing of payments.
(11) See the Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation at Fiscal Year-end 2023 section for additional information on the Deferred Compensation Plan and
distribution options available.
(12) If a named executive’s employment is terminated due to death during the two years after the date of a change in control, the named executive’s estate or
beneficiary will be entitled to survivor and other benefits, including retiree medical coverage, if eligible, that are not less favorable than the most favorable
benefits available to the estates or surviving families of peer executives of Allstate. In the event of termination due to disability during the two years after
the date of a change in control, Allstate will pay disability and other benefits, including supplemental long-term disability benefits and retiree medical
coverage, if eligible, that are not less favorable than the most favorable benefits available to disabled peer executives.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 992024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Estimate of Potential Payments Upon Termination(1)
The table below describes the value of compensation and benefits payable to each named executive upon termination that
would exceed the compensation or benefits generally available to salaried employees in each termination scenario. The
total column in the following table does not reflect compensation or benefits previously accrued or earned by the named
executives, such as deferred compensation and non-qualified pension benefits. Benefits and payments are calculated
assuming a December 31, 2023 employment termination date.
Restricted
Stock Stock Units and Welfare
Annual Options — Performance Stock Benefits and
Incentive Unvested and Awards — Unvested Outplacement
Severance Plan Accelerated and Accelerated Services Total
Name ($) ($)(2) ($) ($) ($) ($)
Mr. Wilson
Termination due to Retirement(3) 0 2,077,500 5,987,837 16,691,075 0 24,756,412
Termination due to Change in Control(4) 11,080,000(5) 4,155,000 6,045,125 17,653,438 66,405(6) 38,999,968
Death 0 2,077,500 6,045,125 17,653,438 0 25,776,063
Disability 0 2,077,500 6,045,125 17,653,438 0 25,776,063
Mr. Merten
Termination due to Retirement(3) 0 0 0 0 0 0
Termination due to Change in Control(4) 3,442,500(5) 956,250 699,867 2,629,664 73,999(6) 7,802,280
Death 0 478,125 699,867 2,629,664 0 3,807,656
Disability 0 478,125 699,867 2,629,664 5,914,741(7) 9,722,397
Mr. Dugenske
Termination due to Retirement(3) 0 0 0 0 0 0
Termination due to Change in Control(4) 4,375,000(5) 1,306,028 1,495,768 4,232,575 73,999(6) 11,483,370
Death 0 653,014 1,495,768 4,232,575 0 6,381,357
Disability 0 653,014 1,495,768 4,232,575 5,046,887(7) 11,428,244
Mr. Gupta
Termination due to Retirement(3) 0 335,555 976,169 3,392,135 0 4,703,859
Termination due to Change in Control(4) 2,850,000(5) 671,109 985,935 4,878,023 66,405(6) 9,451,472
Death 0 335,555 985,935 4,878,023 0 6,199,513
Disability 0 335,555 985,935 4,878,023 1,191,272(7) 7,390,785
Mr. Rizzo
Termination due to Retirement(3) 0 653,014 1,277,966 3,676,294 0 5,607,274
Termination due to Change in Control(4) 4,375,000(5) 1,306,028 1,291,035 3,895,783 66,355(6) 10,934,201
Death 0 653,014 1,291,035 3,895,783 0 5,839,832
Disability 0 653,014 1,291,035 3,895,783 0 5,839,832
(1) A “0” indicates either there is no amount payable to the named executive, or the amount payable is the same for both the named executives and all
salaried employees.
(2) The 2023 annual incentive plan payment is payable to all named executives as a result of death or disability. In addition, it is payable to Messrs. Wilson,
Gupta and Rizzo in the event of retirement. The amount listed for the annual incentive plan payment upon termination due to a change in control is shown
at target as defined in the CIC Plan.
(3) As of December 31, 2023, Messrs. Wilson, Gupta and Rizzo are eligible to retire in accordance with Allstate’s policy and the terms of its equity and annual
incentive compensation and benefit plans.
(4) The values in this change in control row represent amounts paid if both the change in control and qualifying termination occur on December 31, 2023. PSAs
are paid out based on actual performance; for purposes of this table, the 2021-2023 cycle is shown at 31% of target and the 2022-2024 and 2023-2025
cycles are reflected at target.
Equity awards do not accelerate in the event of a change in control unless also accompanied by a qualifying termination of employment. A change in
control also would accelerate the distribution of deferred compensation and SRIP benefits for Messrs. Wilson, Gupta and Rizzo; deferred compensation
and SRIP benefits for the other NEOs are distributed in accordance with the applicable plan terms and participant elections. Please see the Non-Qualified
Deferred Compensation at Fiscal Year-end 2023 table and footnote 2 to the Pension Benefits table in the Retirement Benefits section for details regarding
the applicable amounts for each named executive.
(5) Represents two times the sum of base salary and target annual incentive.
100 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
(6) The Welfare Benefits and Outplacement Services amount includes the cost to provide certain welfare benefits to the named executive and family during
the period the named executive is eligible for continuation coverage under applicable law. The amount shown reflects Allstate’s costs for these benefits or
programs assuming an 18-month continuation period. The value of outplacement services is $50,000 for each named executive.
(7) The named executives who participate in the long-term disability plan are eligible to participate in Allstate’s supplemental long-term disability plan for
employees whose annual earnings exceed the level that produces the maximum monthly benefit provided by the long-term disability plan (basic plan). The
monthly benefit is equal to 60% of the named executive’s qualified annual earnings divided by twelve and rounded to the nearest $100, reduced by $7,500,
which is the maximum monthly benefit payment that can be received under the basic plan. The amount reflected assumes the named executive remains
totally disabled until age 65 and represents the present value of the monthly benefit payable until age 65.
Performance Measures for 2023
The following pages contain descriptions of the performance measures used for executive incentive compensation. They
were developed uniquely for incentive compensation purposes, are non-GAAP measures and are not reported in our
financial statements. The committee has approved the use of non-GAAP measures when appropriate to drive executive
focus on particular strategic, operational, or financial factors, or to exclude factors over which our executives have little
influence or control. The committee monitors compensation estimates during the year based on actual performance on
these measures, and the internal audit department reviews the final results.
Performance Net Income: This measure is calculated uniquely for annual cash incentive awards and each PSA performance
cycle. For each plan, Performance Net Income is equal to net income applicable to common shareholders as reported in The
Allstate Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K adjusted for the after-tax effect of the items indicated below:
Annual Cash Performance
Indicates adjustments to Net Income Incentive Awards Stock Awards(1)
Net income applicable to common shareholders, excluding:
Net gains and losses on investments and derivatives
Income or loss from discontinued operations
Pension and other postretirement remeasurement gains and losses
Business combination expenses and the amortization or
impairment of purchased intangibles
Gain or loss on disposition
Other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items, when
the nature of the charge or gain is such that it is reasonably unlikely
to recur within two years or there has been no similar charge or gain
within the prior two years
Adjusted Net Income subtotal (See Appendix A)
Restructuring and related charges
Run-off Property-Liability segment
Effects of acquiring and selling businesses in excess of $20 million
after-tax
Adjustments to be consistent with financial reporting used in
establishing the measure for items exceeding $20 million after-tax
Adjustments for other significant, non-recurring, infrequent or
unusual items for items exceeding $20 million after-tax
Adjustment to exclude income associated with parent holding
company level deployable assets in excess of $2 billion(2)
Adjustments for foreign exchange rate used in establishing
the measure(2)
Performance Net Income before adjustment for volatile items(3)
Adjustment for after-tax volatile items Adjusted to include minimum Three-year average
or maximum amount of after- adjusted to include a
tax catastrophe losses and minimum or maximum
income from performance- amount of after-tax
based (“PB”) investments catastrophe losses
(1) Performance Net Income ROE is a performance measure for the 2021-2023, 2022-2024, 2023-2025 and 2024-2026 performance cycles. The 2022-2024,
2023-2025, and 2024-2026 performance cycles do not qualify for final measurement as of December 31, 2023; the items checked above and after-tax
volatile items indicate items that by definition may impact the final measurement when the three-year cycle and final measurement is completed.
(2) There are no adjustments for the 2024-2026 performance cycle for these items.
(3) Volatile items include catastrophe losses and income from performance-based investments (“PB income”) depending on the measure.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 1012024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Annual Cash Incentive Award Performance Measures for 2023
• Total Premiums: This measure is used to assess growth within the Allstate Protection, Protection Services, and Allstate
Health & Benefits businesses. It is equal to the sum of Allstate Protection and Protection Services premiums written and
Allstate Health & Benefits premiums and contract charges as described below. Premiums written is equal to the Allstate
Protection and Protection Services net premiums written as reported in management’s discussion and analysis in The
Allstate Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Premiums and contract charges are equal to accident and health insurance premiums and contract charges reported in
the consolidated statement of operations in The Allstate Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Total Premiums is subject to adjustment for the following individual items to the extent they exceed $30 million:
adjustments to be consistent with financial reporting and foreign exchange rates used in establishing the measure and
adjustments to exclude the effects of acquiring and selling businesses.
In 2023, Reported Total Premiums of $54,856 million was adjusted by $107 million to be consistent with foreign exchange
rates used in establishing the measure for Total Premiums of $54,963 million.
• Performance Net Income: In 2023, Performance Net Income was $1,122 million compared to reported Adjusted Net
Income* of $251 million, a difference of $871 million. It was adjusted to reflect a maximum amount of after-tax catastrophe
losses and income from PB investments, to remove the impacts of the underwriting loss of run-off Property-Liability
segment and restructuring and related charges, to be consistent with foreign exchange rates used in establishing
the measure.
• Net Investment Income: This measure is used to assess the financial operating performance provided from investments.
Net investment income and net gains and losses on investments and derivatives on PB investments, as reported in the
consolidated statement of operations, are adjusted to include a minimum or maximum amount of PB income if the actual
amounts are less than or exceed those amounts, respectively. Net Investment Income is also subject to adjustments to
be consistent with the financial reporting and foreign exchange rates used in establishing the measure and to exclude
the effects of acquiring and selling businesses in excess of a threshold.
In 2023, an adjustment was made to reflect the impact of foreign exchange rates used in establishing the measure,
resulting in Net Investment Income of $2,535 million, compared to reported net investment income of $2,530 million,
including net gains and losses on investments and derivatives on PB investments.
Performance Stock Award Performance Measures for the 2021-2023, 2022-
2024, 2023-2025, and 2024-2026 Performance Cycles
PSAs granted in 2021 and 2022 PSAs granted in 2023 PSAs granted in 2024
MEASUREMENTS 50% Average Performance 50% Average Performance Net 50% Average Performance
AND WEIGHTINGS Net Income ROE Income ROE Net Income ROE
30% Relative TSR 40% Relative TSR
30% Relative TSR 10% Transformative Growth
20% Items in Force Growth 10% Inclusive Diversity and Equity 10% Inclusive Diversity and
Equity
* Measures used in this proxy statement that are not based on generally accepted accounting principles (“non-GAAP”) are denoted with an asterisk (*). For
definitions of these terms, please see the definitions of non-GAAP measures on pages 119-121 of our 2024 Proxy Statement.
102 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
• Three-Year Average Performance Net Income Return on Equity: This is calculated as the ratio of Average Performance Net Income
subject to certain adjustments for each of the three years in the performance cycle, divided by the average of Adjusted Common
Shareholders’ Equity at December 31 of the year-end immediately preceding the period and at the end of each year in the three-year
period. It is subject to certain adjustments and excludes total unrealized net capital gains and losses. Performance cycles for 2021-2023,
2022-2024 and 2023-2025 exclude parent holding company level deployable assets in excess of $2 billion and require positive net
income in order for executives to earn PSAs for Average Performance Net Income ROE above target, subject to certain adjustments.
• Relative Total Shareholder Return: This is the company’s Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) relative to the TSR of other peer companies,
expressed in terms of the company’s TSR percentile rank among the peer companies. Peer companies for the applicable performance
cycles are included in the table below (in addition to The Allstate Corporation). TSR is determined by dividing (i) the average Adjusted
Close Price of the applicable company’s stock or applicable index’s price over the 20 trading days prior to and including the final day of the
performance period (“Final Average Adjusted Close Price”) minus the average Adjusted Close Price of the applicable company’s stock or
applicable index’s price over the 20 trading days prior to the first day of the performance period (“Initial Average Adjusted Close Price”) by
(ii) the Initial Average Adjusted Close Price. In calculating TSR, all dividends are assumed to have been reinvested on the ex-dividend date.
2021-2023, 2022-
2024 and 2023-
2025 Performance
Company/Index Cycles 2024-2026 Performance Cycle(1)
American Financial Group Inc.
American International Group Inc.
Chubb Limited
Cincinnati Financial Corporation
CNA Financial Corporation
Kemper Corporation
Selective Insurance Group
S&P 500 Financial Index
S&P 500 Index
The Hanover Insurance Group
The Hartford Financial Services Group Inc.
The Progressive Corporation
The Travelers Companies Inc.
W. R. Berkley Corporation
(1) S&P Indices were removed in 2024. Allstate added three new peers with similar insurance businesses.
• Items in Force Growth: This is used to assess progress against Allstate’s Transformative Growth strategy and growth within the Allstate
business segments. It represents the number of policies in force. Policy counts are based on items rather than customers. The measure is
calculated as the compound annual growth rate of items in force at the beginning and at the end of the three-year performance period.
• Transformative Growth: This is used to assess progress against Allstate’s Transformative Growth strategy, including the Affordable,
Simple, Connected (ASC) roll-out (50% weighting) and improvement of the Lowest Price Index (LPI) (50% weighting). Measurement of
the ASC roll-out component is based on the percentage of Allstate Brand standard auto quotes on an ASC product at the end of the
performance period. Measurement of the LPI component is based on improvement in auto LPI market data points at FYE 2025 relative
to FYE 2023 across ten states.
• Inclusive Diversity and Equity: This is used to assess progress against Allstate’s IDE strategies, including increasing female and racially
and/or ethnically diverse representation within management. Threshold is established at current representation with improving historical
trends for target. This quantitative measurement is consistent with the long-term nature of the company’s IDE strategy.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 1032024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
CEO Pay Ratio
As required by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, we are providing information about the
relationship of the annual total compensation of our employees to the annual total compensation of Mr. Wilson, our CEO.
This pay ratio is a reasonable estimate calculated in a manner consistent with SEC rules.
To calculate the 2023 CEO pay ratio, we used the same median compensated employee that we used for purposes of
calculating the CEO pay ratio for 2022, as there has been no meaningful change in our employee population or employee
compensation arrangements that we believe would significantly impact the CEO pay ratio.
• the annual total compensation of our median employee was $68,814; and
• the annual total compensation of our CEO, as reported in the Summary Compensation Table in this Proxy Statement,
was $16,487,957.
• The ratio of the annual total compensation of Mr. Wilson to our median employee was 239:1.
In 2022, to calculate the ratio, we followed SEC permitted rules and used the following methodology and material
assumptions, adjustments, and estimates:
• December 31, 2022 was selected as the determination date as it enabled us to choose a pay date that aligned
across our enterprise.
• As of December 31, 2022, our U.S. and non-U.S. employee population consisted of approximately 54,500 full-time,
part-time, seasonal and temporary employees. Employees in all countries were included in the calculation, with the
exception of 1,058 employees in Australia, Japan, Malta, Bermuda, Norway, Belgium, and Mexico (15, 17, 2, 5, 2, 1,
and 1,016 in each jurisdiction, respectively).
• The Allstate agent population was excluded since they are not employees of Allstate or its subsidiaries.
• Total cash (base salary plus incentive compensation) was selected as the most appropriate and consistently
applied compensation measure to determine the median worker since equity awards are not broadly distributed.
• Employee compensation was measured using a twelve-month look-back period ending December 31, 2022.
• Permanent employees hired in 2022 that did not work for the entire period had their compensation adjusted as if
they were employed for the entire twelve-month period.
• For non-U.S. employees, an annual average was used for each of the exchange rates.
• After identifying the median worker based on total cash compensation, annual total compensation was calculated
for that person using the same methodology used for the named executives in the Summary Compensation Table
on page 89.
• For 2023, after validating that the median compensated employee from 2022 was still an active employee, annual
total compensation was recalculated for 2023. The median employee’s annual total compensation was $68,814.
The median employee was a claims analyst in the United States with total cash compensation of $68,814 and a
change in pension value of $3,689.
The SEC rules for identifying the median of our employees and calculating the pay ratio allow companies to use a variety of
methodologies, to apply certain exclusions, and to make reasonable estimates and assumptions that reflect a company’s
employee population and compensation practices. For that reason, the pay ratio reported by other companies may not be
comparable to the pay ratio reported above. Neither the committee nor management of the company used the pay ratio
measure in making compensation decisions.
104 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com2024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Pay Versus Performance Table
As required by the SEC rules and aligned with Item 402(v) of Regulation S-K, detail is provided in the pay versus performance table. The
table represents the relationship between our Principal Executive Officer (“PEO”) and Non-PEO NEOs compensation actually paid (“CAP”)
with respect to key financial performance measures of the company. For additional information regarding Allstate’s pay for performance
philosophy and how the company aligns NEO compensation, refer to the CD&A beginning on page 67.
Value of Initial Fixed $100
Average
Investment Based On:
Summary
Summary Compensation Average Total Peer Group
Compensation Compensation Table Total for Compensation Shareholder Total
Table Total for Actually Paid Non-PEO Actually Paid to Return Shareholder Performance
PEO to PEO NEOs Non-PEO NEOs ($) Return Net Income Net Income
Year ($)(1) ($)(2)(3) ($)(1) ($)(2)(3) ($) ($ in millions) ($ in millions)
2023 $16,487,957 $ 8,025,133 $ 4,477,500 $ 2,968,301 $138 $158 $ (316) $1,122
2022 $15,005,001 $ 30,035,131 $ 3,498,306 $ 4,852,665 $130 $149 $(1,416) $ (426)
2021 $19,066,920 $ 27,585,626 $ 5,548,209 $ 7,666,840 $110 $131 $ 1,485 $3,689
2020 $21,126,386 $ 26,023,346 $ 5,228,904 $ 6,270,236 $100 $101 $ 5,461 $4,967
(1) The totals reflected align with the data reported in the Summary Compensation Table as shown on page 89. Mr. Wilson (Chair, President, and CEO) is
represented as the Principal Executive Officer (“PEO”) for each year reported. The Non-PEO NEO column represents Allstate’s NEOs for each respective
year. The employees included in Non-PEO NEOs for each year are noted below:
2023 2022 2021 2020
Jesse Merten Mario Rizzo Glenn Shapiro Mario Rizzo
John Dugenske Glenn Shapiro Don Civgin Glenn Shapiro
Suren Gupta Don Civgin John Dugenske Don Civgin
Mario Rizzo John Dugenske Mario Rizzo John Dugenske
Jesse Merten
Suren Gupta
Bob Toohey
(2) CAP has been calculated in accordance with Item 402(v) of Regulation S-K. The amounts do not reflect actual amount of compensation earned, realized,
or received by the company NEOs. These amounts reflect the Summary Compensation Table Total with certain adjustments as described below. The
calculation of CAP requires adjustments to amounts previously reported in the Summary Compensation Table for the years represented. The adjustments
made to the PEO and Non-PEO NEOs to determine fair value for 2023 are noted in the table below.
2023 2022 2021 2020
Compensation Actually Paid
PEO Non-PEO PEO Non-PEO PEO Non-PEO PEO Non-PEO
Component
Summary Compensation Table (SCT) $16,487,957 $ 4,477,500 $15,005,001 $3,498,306 $19,066,920 $5,548,209 $21,126,386 $ 5,228,904
Total
Deduction: SCT change in Actuarial $ — $ (119,512) $ — $ (51,781) $ (697,929) $ (65,931) $(3,116,842) $ (189,278)
Value of Pension Value
Deduction: SCT Stock Award Amount $(7,883,165) $(1,973,067) $ (6,868,175) $(1,523,242) $ (6,335,804) $(1,617,742) $(7,312,094) $(1,685,460)
Deduction: SCT Option Award $(4,986,008) $(1,010,746) $ (4,293,494) $ (871,876) $ (4,304,994) $(1,099,217) $(4,404,993) $(1,015,376)
Amount
Addition: Pension Service Cost $ 161,803 $ 50,465 $ 235,050 $ 46,723 $ 238,310 $ 62,348 $ 217,343 $ 56,961
Addition: Change in fair value, $(2,085,752) $ (344,544) $ 3,039,030 $ 521,581 $ (454,767) $ (110,761) $ 3,712,366 $ 218,942
during the fiscal year, of
unvested equity awards at
the beginning of the fiscal
year that vested during
the fiscal year
Addition: Change in fair value, $(7,028,704) $(1,309,355) $ 7,695,232 $1,338,444 $ 6,922,985 $1,592,057 $ 6,802,340 $ 1,581,275
during the fiscal year, of
unvested equity awards
at the beginning of the
fiscal year that remained
unvested at year-end
Addition: Fair value, at the end of $13,359,001 $ 3,197,559 $15,222,487 $2,083,563 $13,150,905 $3,357,877 $ 8,998,841 $ 2,074,267
the year, of equity awards
granted during the
fiscal year that remain
unvested at year-end
Deduction: Fair value of unvested $ — $ — $ — $ (189,054) $ — $ — $ — $ —
equity awards at the
beginning of the fiscal
year that were forfeiture
during the fiscal year
Compensation Actually Paid $8,025,133 $2,968,301 $30,035,131 $4,852,665 $27,585,626 $7,666,840 $26,023,346 $6,270,236
(3) Our peer group used for the TSR calculation is the same as our compensation benchmarking peer group, as displayed in the CD&A on page 73. Our
2023 peer group has been modified from that which was utilized in our pay versus performance disclosure for 2022. Pursuant to SEC guidance, all peer
TSR values in the Pay Versus Performance table have been calculated utilizing our 2023 peer group, and 2023 peer TSR utilizing the 2022 peer group is
displayed below.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 1052024 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Value of Initial Fixed $100
Investment Based On:
Total Shareholder Peer Group Total
Return Shareholder Return
Year ($) ($)
2023 138 162
2022 130 149
2021 110 131
2020 100 101
Financial Measures: The Allstate executive compensation programs reflect the pay-for-performance culture and supports shareholder
alignment while also incentivizing our executives as noted throughout the CD&A beginning on page 67. For the annual and long-term
incentive programs, the committee uses performance measures that (1) align with the company’s strategy, operating principles and
priorities, and shareholder interest, (2) support the achievement of corporate goals, and (3) reflect the company’s overall performance. The
most important performance measures used to understand CAP with respect to company’s performance for Allstate NEOs for this most
recently completed fiscal year are as follows:
Performance Net Income (PNI)
Performance Net Income Return on Equity (PNI ROE)
Total Premiums
Relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR)
Relationship between CAP and Performance Measures in the Table: The following graphs provide a visual representation of the
relationship between the CAP of our PEO and the average CAP of our Non-PEO NEOs as it relates to each financial measure noted in the
pay versus performance table. The relationship between Allstate’s TSR and our peer group TSR is reflected in the first graph – CAP vs Total
Shareholder Return. Performance measure mix, timing of grants and outstanding vesting, share price volatility, and other factors impact CAP.
The majority of CAP to our NEOs is closely connected to long-term awards under the long-term incentive plan primarily driven by
Performance Net Income and relative TSR. Over the last three years, external factors, including rising inflation, have impacted Performance
Net Income while Allstate’s relative TSR has remained strong. The graphs below demonstrate:
• From 2020 to 2021, CAP to our PEO increased 6% and average CAP to our non-PEO NEOs experienced a greater increase of 22%. In
the same period our TSR increased from $100 to $110 (10%), while the net income measures fell. The continued increase in CAP as net
income declined is a result of the fair value NEO long-term incentive awards which closely aligns to the TSR which increased over the
same period. The decline in Performance Net Income is a result of higher insurance losses and unfavorable reserve re-estimates.
• From 2021 to 2022, CAP to our PEO increased by just below 9% and average CAP to our non-PEO NEOs experienced a decrease of
nearly 37%. In the same period, our TSR increased from $110 to $130 (18%). Net income continued to decline. Allstate aggressively took
actions to address the decreasing net income during this inflationary period, causing higher insurance losses and unfavorable reserve
re-estimates, resulting in continued TSR increases.
• From 2022 to 2023, CAP to our PEO decreased by 73% and average CAP to our non-PEO NEOs decreased by roughly 36%. In the same
period TSR continued to increase from $130 to $138 (6%). Although still negative, Net Income has improved greatly over 2022 results.
Large decreases in CAP from 2022 to 2023 are primarily related to lower vesting value for 2021-2023 PSAs, decreased PSA values for
outstanding cycles and relatively flat unvested option valuation changes in 2023 compared to significant increases in unvested option
valuation changes during 2022.
• Allstate has seen continued growth in TSR from 2020 through 2023 with an aggregate growth rate of 38% while our peer group has
slightly outpaced us at 56%.
For additional detail regarding Allstate’s executive pay practices including incentive design and goal setting, compensation elements,
compensation decisions, and governance practices see the CD&A beginning on page 67.
CAP vs Total Shareholder Return CAP vs Net Income
$35.0 $160 $35.0 $6,000
$30.0 $140 $30.0 $5,000
$25.0 $120 $25.0 $4,000
$20.0 $100 $20.0 $3,000
$80 $2,000
$15.0 $60 $15.0 $1,000
$10.0 $40 $10.0 $0
$5.0 $20 $5.0 $-1,000
$0.0 2020 2021 2022 2023 $0 $0.0 2020 2021 2022 2023 $-2,000
PEO CAP Avg. NEO CAP ALL TSR Peer TSR CEO CAP Avg. NEO CAP Net Income
CAP vs Performance Net Income
$35.0 $6,000
$30.0 $5,000
$25.0 $4,000
$20.0 $3,000
$15.0 $2,000
$10.0 $1,000
$5.0 $0
$0.0 $-1,000
2020 2021 2022 2023
CEO CAP Avg. NEO CAP PNI
106 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.comAudit Committee
Matters
W: 10 mm H: 10 mm
Standard size of artboard
1 pt
Standard stroke weight
Make sure the icon is centered within the artboard
Remove unnecessary color swatches
Check the overprinting from the ATTRIBUTES window (Ctrl+F11)
Audit committee
matters
Proposal 03 Ratification of Deloitte & Touche LLP as
the Independent Registered Public Accountant for
03 Ratification of Deloitte & Touche LLP
2024
as the Independent Registered Public
Accountant for 2024
What am I voting on?
VOTING RECOMMENDATION:
We conduct a vote every year asking shareholders to ratify the appointment
The Board
of the company’s independent registered public accountant for the current
recommends year, who is Deloitte & Touche LLP (Deloitte) for 2024. While the vote is
non-binding, the audit committee will consider the results as part of their
a vote FOR evaluation of Deloitte.
ratification
Overview
of Deloitte &
• Independent firm with few ancillary services and reasonable fees
Touche LLP • Significant industry and financial reporting expertise
for 2024. • The audit committee annually evaluates Deloitte & Touche LLP and
determined that its retention continues to be in the best interests of
Allstate and its shareholders
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 107Audit Committee Matters
2024 Proxy Statement
Audit Committee Matters
The audit committee has established strong practices to evaluate the qualifications, compensation, performance and
independence of the company’s independent registered public accounting firm, both on an ongoing basis throughout
the year and through the completion of an annual evaluation. Additional information regarding the audit committee’s
duties and responsibilities is available in the committee’s charter located under the Governance section of Allstate’s
investor relations website at www.allstateinvestors.com. Deloitte & Touche LLP has been Allstate’s independent
registered public accounting firm since Allstate became a publicly traded entity in 1993.
As a starting point for the annual evaluation, a survey of management and the audit committee is administered by
Allstate’s internal audit function, with participation of a Deloitte partner unaffiliated with the Allstate account. The
survey assesses Allstate’s general satisfaction with the quality and efficiency of the services provided. Results are
reported to the audit committee, which discusses results with management.
The audit committee and the company’s senior accounting and financial reporting leaders perform the annual evaluation
of Deloitte utilizing key aspects of the external auditor evaluation tool developed by the Center for Audit Quality (CAQ).
The evaluation includes review and discussion of the results of the firm’s reports on its quality controls and external
assessments, including results of inspections conducted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB).
While also evaluating and considering Deloitte’s independence, the audit committee performed its annual
assessment of Deloitte’s performance as independent auditor. The audit committee assessed the performance
of the Deloitte lead audit engagement partner and the audit team. The factors considered by the audit
committee include:
• Quality of Deloitte’s discussions and feedback sessions, including communications with the audit committee
and management
• How effectively Deloitte maintained its independence, objectivity, and professional skepticism and employed
independent judgment
• Depth of insurance industry and technical expertise and capability in handling the breadth and complexity of
Allstate’s operations and industry
• Professionalism and responsiveness
• Value from sharing industry insights, trends, and latest practices, including level and value of engagement
provided by Deloitte National Office when needed
• Quality and efficiency of the work performed
• External data on audit quality and performance, including the results from the PCAOB assessment of Deloitte and
its peer firms and Deloitte’s responsiveness to those reports
• Reasonableness of fees, considering the size and complexity of Allstate and the resources necessary to perform a
high-quality audit
• Knowledge of our operations, accounting policies and practices, and internal control over financial reporting
• Deloitte’s tenure as Allstate’s independent auditor and the firm’s internal safeguards to maintain independence,
the benefits of having a long-tenured auditor and the impact of changing auditors
The audit committee also recognizes the importance of maintaining the independence of our independent registered
public accounting firm, both in fact and appearance, and has considered an auditor tenure limit. A rigorous review
of Deloitte’s capabilities, coupled with the comprehensive regulatory oversight structure in the United States led
by the PCAOB, has mitigated the need for tenure requirements. The audit committee will periodically engage in a
comprehensive process in which it makes a request for information (RFI) from multiple independent registered public
accounting firms. This information enables the audit committee to evaluate whether to request for proposals (RFP)
from these firms for further consideration of a change in its external auditor. The most recent RFI was performed in
2021 using criteria consistent with those set forth by the CAQ for purposes of evaluating external auditors. These
include quality measures and controls, controls designed to maintain independence and objectivity, service model
and approach, expertise, and diversity and equity practices. Ongoing monitoring of observable measures of these key
criteria as well as the breadth of relationships with other large, alternative firms will continue to ensure viable options
remain available if the committee determines it is in the best interests of the company to make a change.
110088 TThhee AAllllssttaattee CCoorrppoorraattiioonn || AAllllssttaatteePPrrooxxyy..ccoommAuditor Fees
2024 Proxy Statement
Audit Committee Matters
The audit committee also oversees the mandatory, five-year rotation of audit partners, in accordance with SEC rules
and approves Deloitte’s lead engagement partner. The current lead engagement partner was appointed beginning with
the fiscal year 2022 audit. The process for selection of the lead engagement partner involves the screening of qualified
candidates, followed by interviews with the audit committee chair and management.
The audit committee has also adopted a policy regarding the pre-approval of all audit and permissible non-audit
services provided by the independent registered public accounting firm. The policy identifies the basic principles that
must be considered by the audit committee in approving services to ensure that the registered public accounting firm’s
independence is not impaired, describes the type of audit, audit-related, tax and other services that may be provided,
and lists the non-audit services that may not be performed. The independent registered public accounting firm or
management submits to the audit committee detailed schedules with all of the proposed services within each category,
together with the estimated fees. Each specific service requires approval before service can begin.
Prior to requesting approval from the audit committee, the registered public accounting firm and management consider
and conclude that the services are permissible in that they: (1) do not place the registered public accounting firm in
the position of auditing their own work, (2) do not result in the registered public accounting firm’s personnel acting as
management or an employee of Allstate, (3) do not place the registered public accounting firm in a position of being
an advocate for Allstate, (4) do not create a mutual or conflicting interest between the registered public accounting
firm and Allstate and (5) are not based on a contingent fee arrangement. The audit committee’s policy delegates to
the committee chair the authority to grant approvals, but the decisions of the committee chair must be reported to
the audit committee at its next regularly scheduled meeting. All services provided by Deloitte in 2022 and 2023 were
approved in accordance with this pre-approval policy.
The audit committee and the Board believe it is in the best interests of Allstate and its shareholders to
continue to retain Deloitte as Allstate’s independent registered public accounting firm. Deloitte’s performance
in the most recent RFI assessment, as well as ongoing measurements of criteria such as quality measures and
controls, controls designed to maintain independence and objectivity, service model and approach, expertise,
and diversity and equity practices, ensures it will continue to provide excellent expertise and service. Deloitte’s
high quality audit work and accounting advice, deep institutional knowledge of the company’s business and
operations, accounting policies and financial systems, and internal control framework support continued utilization of
their services.
The audit committee oversees and is ultimately responsible for the negotiation of audit fees associated with the
retention of Deloitte. The following fees have been, or are anticipated to be, billed by Deloitte, the member firms of
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, and their respective affiliates, for professional services rendered to Allstate for the fiscal
years ending December 31, 2022, and December 31, 2023.
2022 2023
Audit fees(1) $11,427,000 $11,766,000
Audit-related fees(2) $ 1,335,000 $ 1,512,000
Tax fees(3) $ 26,000 $ 103,000
All other fees(4) $ — $ 185,000
Total fees(5) $12,788,000 $13,566,000
(1) Fees for audits of annual financial statements, reviews of quarterly financial statements, statutory audits, attest services, comfort letters, consents, and
review of documents filed with the SEC. Prior year fees have been adjusted to reflect actual expenditures for the year.
(2) Audit-related fees relate to professional services, such as accounting consultations relating to new accounting standards and audits, Service Organization
Controls audit reports and other attest services for non-consolidated affiliates (i.e., employee benefit plans, various trusts, etc.) and are set forth below.
2022 2023
Audits and other attest services for non-consolidated entities $ 315,000 $ 315,000
Other audit-related fees $1,020,000 $1,197,000
Total audit-related fees $1,335,000 $1,512,000
(3) Tax fees include income tax return preparation, compliance assistance, tax studies and research, and international tax planning.
(4) “All other fees” includes all fees paid that are not audit, audit-related, or tax services.
(5) Total fees for 2022 decreased due to the completion of a project under budget.
TThhee AAllllssttaattee CCoorrppoorraattiioonn || AAllllssttaatteePPrrooxxyy..ccoomm 1100992024 Proxy Statement
Audit Committee Matters
Representatives of Deloitte will be present at the 2024 Annual Meeting to respond to questions and may make
a statement if they choose. If shareholders fail to ratify the appointment, the audit committee will reconsider the
appointment, but no assurance can be given that the audit committee will be able to change the appointment while
enabling timely completion of the 2024 audited financial statements.
Audit Committee Report
Deloitte & Touche LLP (Deloitte) was Allstate’s independent registered public accountant for the year ended
December 31, 2023.
The audit committee reviewed and discussed with management and the independent registered public accounting firm
the audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023, as well as management’s assessment of
the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting.
The committee discussed with Deloitte the matters required to be discussed by the applicable requirements of
the PCAOB and the SEC. The committee received the written disclosures and letter from Deloitte that is required
by applicable requirements of the PCAOB regarding Deloitte’s communications with the committee concerning
independence and has discussed with Deloitte its independence.
The audit committee met in periodic executive sessions with each of management, the internal auditor, and the
independent registered public accounting firm to discuss the results of the examinations by the independent and
internal auditors, their evaluations of internal controls, and the overall quality of the company’s financial reporting, and
other matters as appropriate.
Based on these reviews and discussions and other information considered by the committee in its judgment, the
committee recommended to the Board of Directors that the audited financial statements be included in Allstate’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023, for filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, and furnished to shareholders with this Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement.
Kermit R. Crawford (CHAIR) Siddharth N. Mehta Donald E. Brown Jacques P. Perold
Monica Turner
111100 TThhee AAllllssttaattee CCoorrppoorraattiioonn || AAllllssttaatteePPrrooxxyy..ccoommShareholder
Proposal
04 Independent Board Chairman
Mr. Kenneth Steiner, 14 Stoner Ave., 2M Great Neck, NY 11021, beneficial owner of
VOTING RECOMMENDATION:
no less than 500 shares of Allstate common stock as of October 30, 2023, intends
to present the following resolution at the annual meeting:
The Board
Shareholders request that the Board of Directors adopt an enduring policy, and
recommends a
amend the governing documents as necessary in order that 2 separate people
hold the office of the Chairman and the office of the CEO.
vote AGAINST
Whenever possible, the Chairman of the Board shall be an
this proposal. Independent Director.
The Board has the discretion to select a Temporary Chairman of the Board
• It is in the best interests who is not an Independent Director to serve while the Board is seeking an
Independent Chairman of the Board on an accelerated basis.
of Allstate’s stockholders
for the Board to have the It is a best practice to adopt this proposal soon. However this policy could be
Proposal 04 Independent phased in when there is a contract renewal for our current CEO or for the next
ability to determine the
CEO transition.
best person to serve as
Board Chairman Board Chair. This proposal topic won 52% support at Boeing and 54% support at Baxter
International in 2020. Boeing then adopted this proposal topic.
• Allstate’s independent Lead
A lead director is no substitute for an independent board chairman. A lead
Director provides additional
director cannot call a special shareholder meeting and cannot even call a
leadership of the Board.
special meeting of the board. A lead director can delegate most of his lead
• There are other structural director duties to others and then simply rubber-stamp it. There is no way
safeguards to provide shareholders can be sure of what goes on.
effective independent A lead director can be given a list of duties but there is no rule that prevents
oversight of Allstate. the Chairman from overriding the lead director in any of the so-called lead
director duties.
Allstate lead director Mr. Gregg Sherrill had years in the dual jobs of CEO and
Chairman. Perhaps there should be a rule against a person who has been a
CEO and a Chairman at the same time being named as lead director.
Past and present holders of both jobs at the same time would seem to have
a special affinity with the Allstate person who now has the 2 most important
Allstate jobs, Chairman and CEO. Affinity is inconsistent with the oversight role
of a lead director.
Executive pay was rejected by 24 million shares in 2022 and 18 million shares
in 2023. It takes more conviction for shareholders to reject executive pay than
to simply accept it. A lead director role is to work with committee chairs. It
seems that Mr. Sherrill needs to work more with the chair of the executive
pay committee.
The increased complexities of modern companies of $54 Billion in annual
revenue, like Allstate, increasingly demand that 2 persons fill the 2 most
important jobs in the company — CEO and Chairman.
Please vote yes:
Independent Board Chairman – Proposal 4
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 1112024 Proxy Statement
Shareholder Proposal
Board of Directors’ Statement in Opposition to the Stockholder Proposal on Independent
Board Chair
The Board recommends that stockholders vote “AGAINST” this proposal for the following reasons:
It is in the best interests of Allstate’s stockholders for the Board to have the ability to
determine the best person to serve as Board Chair.
• Requiring a split of the roles would reduce the Board’s ability to act in the best interests of the company as the
needs of the Board and the company change over time. Allstate’s Board has chosen to split the roles during a
leadership transition.
• In 2023, Allstate engaged with investors regarding many issues, including Board leadership structure. Many
stockholders expressed the opinion that there is no “one size fits all” solution and that the Board should be able
to retain the flexibility to choose the most effective leadership structure given the circumstances facing the company
at any point in time.
• The majority of companies provide for Board flexibility in determining whether to combine the Chair and CEO
roles. Of the S&P 500, only 39% currently have an independent Chair and less than 10% require separation of the
Chair and CEO roles. No independent chair proposals have passed in the last two years, reflecting broad shareholder
sentiment that flexibility should be retained.
• The current structure provides independent Board leadership and engagement while fully leveraging the CEO’s
experience, expertise and capabilities. At the present time, the independent directors have determined that Allstate
is well served by having Mr. Wilson hold the roles of Chair and CEO. Mr. Wilson has extensive industry and company
knowledge and has demonstrated successful leadership and direction for both management and the Board.
Allstate’s independent Lead Director provides additional leadership of the Board.
• Allstate’s Lead Director has well-defined and significant responsibilities, separate from the responsibilities of
the Chair/CEO. These responsibilities include approval of all Board agendas and information provided to the Board;
authority to call meetings of the independent directors; participation in stockholder engagement; oversight and
facilitation of the annual Board evaluation, Board refreshment and succession planning processes; chairing all executive
sessions; serving as a liaison between the Chair and the independent directors; and guiding the Board’s overall
governance processes. For a more detailed description of our Lead Director role, see page 42 of this Proxy Statement.
• The Lead Director is elected annually by the independent directors following robust discussion and performance
evaluation. As part of that review, the nominating, governance and social responsibility committee evaluates the criteria
for nominees for the Lead Director role and assesses any necessary changes based on current issues facing Allstate. The
independent directors consider the director’s corporate governance expertise, operational and leadership experience,
board tenure, integrity, relationships with the other Board members, and external commitments. Additionally, there is
a written policy in place to rotate the Lead Director every three to five years, which fosters a balance of historical
knowledge and fresh perspective. Allstate’s current Lead Director was appointed in 2021.
There are other structural safeguards to provide effective independent oversight
of Allstate.
• The Board is 92% independent, with the CEO being the only non-independent Board member.
• All members of each of the key Board committees (the audit, compensation and human capital, nominating, governance
and social responsibility, and risk and return committees) are independent and each committee chair has robust and
clearly articulated responsibilities.
• After each regularly scheduled Board meeting, both the full Board and the independent directors of the Board meet in
executive session, with the independent directors’ session chaired by the Lead Director.
• Each committee operates under a written charter that directs the oversight of key matters, the integrity of Allstate’s
financial statements, executive compensation, CEO performance, nomination of directors, evaluation of the Board,
and risk and return management. Additionally, the Board supplements their oversight with external independent
resources, including compensation, financial results, and key governance topics.
111122 TThhee AAllllssttaattee CCoorrppoorraattiioonn || AAllllssttaatteePPrrooxxyy..ccoommStock Ownership Information
Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers
The following table shows the Allstate common shares beneficially owned as of March 1, 2024, by each director and named
executive individually, and by all executive officers and directors of Allstate as a group. Shares reported as beneficially
owned include shares held indirectly through the Allstate 401(k) Savings Plan and other shares held indirectly. It also
includes shares subject to stock options exercisable, and restricted stock units subject to conversion into common shares,
within sixty days of March 1. As of March 1, 2024, none of these shares were pledged as security.
Amount and
Nature of Common
Beneficial Stock Subject
Ownership to Options
of Allstate Exercisable Total
Common on or Prior to Restricted Stock-Based Percent
Name of Beneficial Owner Stock(1) April 29, 2024 Stock Units(2) Ownership(3) of Class
Donald E. Brown 3,351 0 1,124 4,475 *
Kermit R. Crawford 1,000 0 19,708 20,708 *
Richard T. Hume 1,485 0 4,027 5,512 *
Margaret M. Keane 12,428 0 4,027 16,455 *
Siddharth N. Mehta 4,840 0 11,346 16,186 *
Maria Morris 0 0 508 508 *
Jacques P. Perold 35 0 11,832 11,867 *
Andrea Redmond 2,000 0 24,530 26,530 *
Gregg M. Sherrill 5,965 0 4,027 9,992 *
Judith A. Sprieser 0 0 34,215 34,215 *
Perry M. Traquina 3,802 0 7,747 11,549 *
Monica Turner 0 0 2,059 2,059 *
Thomas J. Wilson 1,184,258 2,042,374 0 3,226,632 *
Jesse Merten 25,310 55,907 0 81,217 *
John Dugenske 95,059 190,180 0 285,239 *
Suren Gupta 92,293 329,365 0 421,658 *
Mario Rizzo 64,665 228,006 0 292,671 *
All directors and executive officers as a group (23 total) 1,556,032 3,124,892 125,150 4,806,074 1.8%
* Less than 1% of the outstanding shares of common stock.
(1) This column includes restricted stock units (RSUs) held by executive officers that convert into common shares by April 29, 2024.
(2) All non-employee directors hold RSUs granted under Allstate’s equity compensation plans for non-employee directors. This column lists those RSUs that
would be distributed to directors in the form of shares of common stock within 60 days if any of them were to have retired as a director on March 1, 2024.
Some directors hold additional RSUs that are not reflected in the table above because common stock would not be distributed to directors until at least
one year following his or her retirement as a director, or in some cases, as many as ten years following the date of grant. For more information regarding the
RSUs held by each director at the end of 2023, please see the details on page 65.
(3) These amounts are the sum of the number of shares shown in the prior columns. As of March 1, 2024, no director or executive officer beneficially owned
1% or more of the outstanding common stock of Allstate. The directors and executive officers of Allstate as a group beneficially owned (including common
stock subject to stock options exercisable and restricted stock units for which restrictions expire on or prior to April 30, 2024) approximately 1.8% of the
common stock outstanding as of March 1, 2024.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 1132024 Proxy Statement
Stock Ownership Information
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
Amount and Nature of Percent
Title of Class Name and Address of Beneficial Owner Beneficial Ownership of Class
Common The Vanguard Group 100 Vanguard Boulevard 32,184,316(1) 12.3%
Malvern, PA 19355
Common BlackRock Inc. 55 East 52nd Street New York, 18,903,948(2) 7.2%
NY 10055
(1) Reflects shares beneficially owned as of December 31, 2023, as set forth in a Schedule 13G/A filed on February 13, 2024. Of these shares, The Vanguard
Group reported it held 0 shares with sole voting power; 327,195 shares with shared voting power; 31,030,890 shares with sole dispositive power; and
1,153,426 shares with shared dispositive power.
(2) Reflects shares beneficially owned as of December 31, 2023, as set forth in a Schedule 13G/A filed on January 26, 2024. Of these shares, BlackRock reported
it held 16,876,691 shares with sole voting power; 0 shares with shared voting power; 18,903,948 shares with sole dispositive power; and 0 shares with shared
dispositive power.
111144 TThhee AAllllssttaattee CCoorrppoorraattiioonn || AAllllssttaatteePPrrooxxyy..ccoommOther Information
Proxy and Voting Information
Who is Asking for My Vote and Why?
The Allstate Board of Directors is soliciting proxies for use at the annual meeting of shareholders on May 14, 2024, and any
adjournments or postponements of the meeting. The annual meeting will be held only if there is a quorum, which means
that a majority of the outstanding common stock entitled to vote is represented at the meeting by proxy or in person. To
ensure there will be a quorum, the Allstate Board asks you to vote before the meeting, which allows your Allstate stock to be
represented at the annual meeting.
Who Can Vote at the Annual Meeting?
The Allstate Board has set the close of business on March 18, 2024, as the record date for the meeting. This means that
you are entitled to vote if you were a shareholder of record at the close of business on March 18, 2024. On that date, there
were 263,759,279 shares of Allstate common stock outstanding and entitled to vote at the annual meeting.
Why Did I Receive a Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials Instead of
the Proxy Materials?
We distribute our proxy materials to most shareholders over the Internet using “Notice and Access” delivery, as permitted
by the rules of the SEC. We elected to use this method for most shareholders as it reduces our print and mail costs and the
environmental impact of our annual shareholders’ meeting.
How Do I Vote?
Instructions on how to vote your shares are included on the Notice on page 10. If you hold shares in your own name as
a registered shareholder, you may vote by participating in the annual meeting, or you may instruct the proxies how to
vote your shares by following the instructions on the proxy card/voting instruction form. If you plan to participate in the
meeting, please see the details on page 11.
If you hold shares in street name (that is, through a broker, bank, or other record holder), you should follow the instructions
provided by your broker, bank, or other record holder to vote your shares.
If you hold shares through the Allstate 401(k) Savings Plan, please see the instructions on pages 117-118.
Can I Change My Vote?
Before your shares have been voted at the annual meeting by the proxies, you may change or revoke your voting
instructions by providing instructions again by telephone, by Internet, in writing, or, if you are a registered shareholder, by
voting at the annual meeting.
Are the Votes Kept Confidential?
All proxies and tabulations that identify the vote of a particular shareholder are confidential, except as necessary to allow
the inspector of election to certify the voting results or to meet certain legal requirements. A representative of American
Election Services, LLC will act as the inspector of election and will count the votes. The representative is independent of
Allstate and its directors, officers, and employees.
If you write a comment on your proxy card or voting instruction form, it may be provided to our Secretary along with your
name and address.
The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.com 1152024 Proxy Statement
Other Information
Your comments will be provided without reference to how you voted, unless the vote is mentioned in your comment or
unless disclosure of the vote is necessary to understand your comment. At our request, the distribution agent or the
solicitation agent will provide us with periodic status reports on the aggregate vote. These status reports may include a list
of shareholders who have not voted and breakdowns of vote totals by different types of shareholders, as long as we are not
able to determine how a particular shareholder voted.
What Happens If I Submit a Signed Proxy Card but Do Not Indicate How I Want
to Vote?
You may instruct the proxies to vote “FOR” or “AGAINST” on each proposal, or you may instruct the proxies to “ABSTAIN”
from voting. If you submit a signed proxy card/voting instruction form to allow your shares to be represented at the annual
meeting but do not indicate how your shares should be voted on one or more proposals, then the proxies will vote your
shares as the Board of Directors recommends on those proposals. Other than the proposals listed on pages 24-27, we do
not know of any other matters to be presented at the meeting. If any other matters are properly presented at the meeting,
the proxies may vote your shares in accordance with their best judgment.
What Vote Is Needed to Approve Each Item?
Shares of common stock represented by a properly completed proxy card/voting instruction form will be counted as
present at the meeting for purposes of determining a quorum, even if the shareholder is abstaining from voting.
Proposal 1. To be elected under Allstate’s majority vote standard, each director must receive an affirmative vote of the
majority of the votes cast. In other words, the number of shares voted “FOR” a director must exceed 50% of the votes cast
on that director. Abstentions will not be counted as votes cast and will have no impact on the vote’s outcome.
Proposals 2 – 4. A majority of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote
must be voted “FOR” the proposal. Abstentions will have the effect of a vote against the proposal.
Are Broker Non-votes Counted at the Meeting?
Brokers and banks have discretionary authority to vote shares in the absence of instructions on matters the NYSE
considers “routine,” such as the ratification of the appointment of the auditors. They do not have discretionary authority to
vote shares in the absence of instructions on “non-routine” matters, such as the election of directors, say-on-pay and the
shareholder proposal to have an independent Board Chairman. Broker non-votes will not be counted as shares entitled to
vote on any of the foregoing non-routine matters and will have no impact on the outcomes of those votes.
What Is “householding” and How Does It Affect Me?
Allstate has adopted the “householding” procedure approved by the SEC, which allows us to deliver one set of documents
to a household of shareholders instead of delivering a set to each shareholder in a household, unless we have been
instructed otherwise. This procedure is more environmentally friendly and cost-effective because it reduces the number of
copies to be printed and mailed. Shareholders who receive proxy materials in paper form will continue to receive separate
proxy cards/voting instruction forms to vote their shares. Shareholders who receive the Notice of Internet Availability of
Proxy Materials will receive instructions on submitting their proxy cards/voting instruction form via the Internet.
If you would like to change your householding election, request that a single copy of the proxy materials be sent to your
address, or request a separate copy of the proxy materials, please contact our distribution agent, Broadridge Financial
Solutions, by calling (866) 540-7095 or by writing to Broadridge Householding Department, 51 Mercedes Way, Edgewood,
NY 11717. We will promptly deliver the proxy materials to you upon receipt of your request. If you hold your shares in street
name, please contact your bank, broker, or other record holder to request information about householding.
If you receive more than one proxy card/voting instruction form, your shares probably are registered in more than one
account or you may hold shares both as a registered shareholder and through the Allstate 401(k) Savings Plan. You should
vote each proxy card/voting instruction form you receive.
111166 TThhee AAllllssttaattee CCoorrppoorraattiioonn || AAllllssttaatteePPrrooxxyy..ccoomm2024 Proxy Statement
Other Information
Where Can I Find the Results of the Annual Meeting?
Preliminary results will be announced at the meeting, and final results will be reported in a current report on Form 8-K,
which is required to be filed with the SEC within four business days after the meeting.
Who Will Pay the Cost of This Proxy Solicitation?
Allstate pays the cost of this proxy solicitation. Officers and other employees of Allstate and its subsidiaries may solicit
proxies by mail, personal interview, telephone, facsimile, electronic means, or via the Internet. None of these individuals will
receive special compensation for soliciting votes, which will be performed in addition to their regular duties, and some of
them may not necessarily solicit proxies. Allstate also has made arrangements with brokerage firms, banks, record holders,
and other fiduciaries to forward proxy solicitation materials to the beneficial owners of shares they hold on their behalf.
Allstate will reimburse these intermediaries for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses. Alliance Advisors, 200 Broadacres Drive,
3rd Floor, Bloomfield, NJ 07003 has been retained to assist in the solicitation of proxies for a fee of $20,000 plus expenses.
How Do I Submit Shareholder Proposals or Director Nominations for the 2025
Annual Meeting?
Proposals that shareholders would like to include in Allstate’s proxy materials for presentation at the 2025 Annual Meeting
must be received by the Office of the Secretary by December 2, 2024, and must otherwise comply with SEC rules in order
to be eligible for inclusion in the proxy materials for the 2025 Annual Meeting.
If a shareholder would like to bring a matter before the meeting that is not the subject of a proposal that meets the SEC
proxy rule requirements for inclusion in the proxy statement, the shareholder must follow procedures in Allstate’s bylaws in
order to personally present the proposal at the meeting.
One of the procedural requirements in the bylaws is timely notice in writing of the business the shareholder proposes to
bring before the meeting. Notice of business proposed to be brought before the 2025 annual meeting must be received by
the Office of the Secretary no earlier than the close of business on January 14, 2025 and no later than the close of business
on February 13, 2025. Among other things, the notice must describe the business proposed to be brought before the
meeting, the reasons for conducting the business at the meeting, and any material interest of the shareholder in
the business.
A shareholder also may directly nominate someone for election as a director at a shareholders’ meeting. Under our bylaws,
a shareholder may nominate a candidate at the 2025 annual meeting by providing advance notice to Allstate to the Office
of the Secretary that is received no earlier than the close of business on January 14, 2025, and no later than the close of
business on February 13, 2025. For proxy access nominees to be considered at the 2025 annual meeting, the nomination
notice must be received by the Office of the Secretary no earlier than the close of business on November 2, 2024, and no
later than the close of business on December 2, 2024. Among other things, the notice must include the information and
documents described in Section 20 of the company’s bylaws. In addition, shareholders who intend to solicit proxies in
support of director nominees other than the company’s nominees must also comply with the additional requirements of
Rule 14a-19(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
A copy of the procedures and requirements related to the above matters is available upon request from the Office of the
Secretary or can be found on Allstate’s website, www.allstateinvestors.com. The notices required above must be sent to the
Office of the Secretary, The Allstate Corporation, 3100 Sanders Road, Northbrook, IL 60062.
How Do I Vote If I Hold Shares Through the 401(k) Savings Plan?
If you hold Allstate common shares through the Allstate 401(k) Savings Plan, your proxy card/voting instruction form
for those shares will instruct the plan trustee how to vote those shares. If you received your annual meeting materials
electronically, and you hold Allstate common shares both through the plan and also directly as a registered shareholder,
TThhee AAllllssttaattee CCoorrppoorraattiioonn || AAllllssttaatteePPrrooxxyy..ccoomm 1111772024 Proxy Statement
Other Information
the voting instructions you provide electronically will be applied to both your plan shares and your registered shares. If
you return a signed proxy card/voting instruction form or vote by telephone or the Internet on a timely basis, the trustee
will follow your voting instructions for all Allstate common shares allocated to your plan account unless that would be
inconsistent with the trustee’s duties.
If your voting instructions are not received on a timely basis, the shares allocated to your plan account will be considered
“unvoted.” If you return a signed proxy card/voting instruction form but do not indicate how your shares should be voted on
a given matter, the shares represented by your proxy card/voting instruction form will be voted as the Board of Directors
recommends. The trustee will vote all unvoted shares held by the plan as follows:
• If the trustee receives instructions (through voting instruction forms or through telephonic or Internet instruction) on a
timely basis for at least 50% of the votable shares in the plan, then it will vote all unvoted shares in the same proportion
and in the same manner as the shares for which timely instructions have been received, unless to do so would be
inconsistent with the trustee’s duties.
• If the trustee receives instructions for less than 50% of the votable shares, the trustee will vote all unvoted shares at its
sole discretion. However, the trustee will not use its discretionary authority to vote on adjournment of the meeting in
order to solicit further proxies.
Plan votes receive the same high level of confidentiality as all other votes. You may not vote the shares allocated to
your plan account by voting at the meeting. You must instruct The Northern Trust Company, as trustee for the plan, how to
vote your shares.
How Can I Inspect a List of Shareholders Entitled to Vote at the Meeting?
Shareholders wishing to inspect the list of registered shareholders of The Allstate Corporation as of the record date for
the 2024 Annual Meeting of Shareholders should send an e-mail to invrel@allstate.com. Please include (1) your name and
(2) if you hold your shares through a broker, bank or other intermediary, an image of your stock ownership statement.
Upon verification of your status as a shareholder, you will be provided access to view and inspect the list of registered
shareholders as of the record date. Shareholders will not be able to download or print the list.
By order of the Board,
Christine DeBiase
Secretary
April 1, 2024
111188 TThhee AAllllssttaattee CCoorrppoorraattiioonn || AAllllssttaatteePPrrooxxyy..ccoomm2024 Proxy Statement
Other Information
Appendix A – Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures
Measures that are not based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“non-GAAP”)
are defined and reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measure. We believe that investors’ understanding of
Allstate’s performance is enhanced by our disclosure of the following non-GAAP measures. Our methods for calculating
these measures may differ from those used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited.
Adjusted net income (loss) is net income (loss) applicable to common shareholders, excluding:
• Net gains and losses on investments and derivatives
• Pension and other postretirement remeasurement gains and losses
• Business combination expenses and the amortization or impairment of purchased intangibles
• Income or loss from discontinued operations
• Gain or loss on disposition
• Adjustments for other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items, when (a) the nature of the charge or gain is
such that it is reasonably unlikely to recur within two years, or (b) there has been no similar charge or gain within the prior
two years
• Income tax expense or benefit on reconciling items
Net income (loss) applicable to common shareholders is the GAAP measure that is most directly comparable to adjusted
net income.
We use adjusted net income as an important measure to evaluate our results of operations. We believe that the measure
provides investors with a valuable measure of the Company’s ongoing performance because it reveals trends in our
insurance and financial services business that may be obscured by the net effect of net gains and losses on investments
and derivatives, pension and other postretirement remeasurement gains and losses, business combination expenses and
the amortization or impairment of purchased intangibles, income or loss from discontinued operations, gain or loss on
disposition and adjustments for other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items and the related tax expense
or benefit of these items. Net gains and losses on investments and derivatives, and pension and other postretirement
remeasurement gains and losses may vary significantly between periods and are generally driven by business decisions
and external economic developments such as capital market conditions, the timing of which is unrelated to the insurance
underwriting process.
Business combination expenses, income or loss from discontinued operations and gain or loss on disposition are excluded
because they are non-recurring in nature and the amortization or impairment of purchased intangibles is excluded because
it relates to the acquisition purchase price and is not indicative of our underlying business results or trends.
Non-recurring items are excluded because, by their nature, they are not indicative of our business or economic trends.
Accordingly, adjusted net income excludes the effect of items that tend to be highly variable from period to period and
highlights the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of our business. A byproduct of excluding
these items to determine adjusted net income is the transparency and understanding of their significance to net income
variability and profitability while recognizing these or similar items may recur in subsequent periods.
Adjusted net income is used by management along with the other components of net income (loss) applicable to common
shareholders to assess our performance. We use adjusted measures of adjusted net income in incentive compensation.
Therefore, we believe it is useful for investors to evaluate net income (loss) applicable to common shareholders, adjusted
net income and their components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing and evaluating our performance.
We note that investors, financial analysts, financial and business media organizations and rating agencies utilize adjusted
net income results in their evaluation of our and our industry’s financial performance and in their investment decisions,
recommendations and communications as it represents a reliable, representative and consistent measurement of the
industry and the Company and management’s performance. We note that the price to earnings multiple commonly used
by insurance investors as a forward-looking valuation technique uses adjusted net income as the denominator. Adjusted
net income should not be considered a substitute for net income (loss) applicable to common shareholders and does not
reflect the overall profitability of our business.
TThhee AAllllssttaattee CCoorrppoorraattiioonn || AAllllssttaatteePPrrooxxyy..ccoomm 1111992024 Proxy Statement
Other Information
The following table reconciles net income (loss) applicable to common shareholders and adjusted net income for the years
ended December 31.
Per diluted common share
($ in millions, except per share data) 2023 2022(3) 2021(3) 2023 2022(3) 2021(3)
Net income (loss) applicable to common shareholders $(316) $(1,394) $1,500 $(1.20) $(5.14) $ 5.01
Net (gains) losses on investments and derivatives 300 1,072 (1,084) 1.13 3.95 (3.63)
Pension and other postretirement remeasurement (gains) losses 9 116 (644) 0.04 0.43 (2.15)
Amortization of purchased intangibles 329 353 398 1.24 1.30 1.33
Business combination of fair value adjustment — — (6) — — (0.02)
(Gain) loss on disposition (4) (89)(4) — (0.01) (0.33) —
(Income) loss from discontinued operations — — 3,612 — — 12.08
Non-recurring costs(1) 90 — — 0.34 — —
Income tax expense (benefit) (157) (297) 272 (0.59) (1.09) 0.91
Adjusted net income (loss)* $ 251 $ (239) $4,048 $0.95 $(0.88) $13.53
Weighted average common-shares – Diluted(2) 264.7 271.2 299.1
Weighted average dilutive potential common shares excluded due 2.2 3.1 —
to net loss applicable to common shareholders(2)
(1) Relates to settlement costs for non-recurring litigation that is outside of the ordinary course of business.
(2) In periods where a net loss or adjusted net loss is reported, weighted average shares for basic earnings per share is used for calculating diluted earnings
per share because all dilutive potential common shares are anti-dilutive and are therefore excluded from the calculation.
(3) 2022 and 2021 periods have been recast to reflect the impact of the adoption of the FASB guidance revising the accounting for certain long-duration
insurance contracts.
(4) Includes $83 million related to the gain on sale of headquarters in the fourth quarter of 2022.
Combined Ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes, prior year reserve reestimates and amortization or impairment
of purchased intangibles (“underlying combined ratio”) is a non-GAAP ratio, which is computed as the difference between
four GAAP operating ratios: the combined ratio, the effect of catastrophes on the combined ratio, the effect of prior year non-
catastrophe reserve reestimates on the combined ratio, and the effect of amortization or impairment of purchased intangibles
on the combined ratio. We believe that this ratio is useful to investors and it is used by management to reveal the trends in
our Property-Liability business that may be obscured by catastrophe losses, prior year reserve reestimates and amortization
or impairment of purchased intangibles. Catastrophe losses cause our loss trends to vary significantly between periods as
a result of their incidence of occurrence and magnitude, and can have a significant impact on the combined ratio. Prior year
reserve reestimates are caused by unexpected loss development on historical reserves, which could increase or decrease
current year net income. Amortization or impairment of purchased intangibles relates to the acquisition purchase price and
is not indicative of our underlying insurance business results or trends. We believe it is useful for investors to evaluate these
components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing our underwriting performance. The most directly comparable
GAAP measure is the combined ratio. The underlying combined ratio should not be considered a substitute for the combined
ratio and does not reflect the overall underwriting profitability of our business.
The following table reconciles the Property-Liability combined ratio to the Property-Liability underlying combined ratio for
the years ended December 31.
2023 2022 2021
Combined Ratio 104.5 106.6 95.9
Effect of catastrophe losses (11.6) (7.1) (8.3)
Effect of prior year non-catastrophe reserve reestimates (1.2) (3.9) (0.8)
Effect of amortization of purchased intangibles (0.5) (0.5) (0.6)
Underlying combined ratio* 91.2 95.1 86.2
Effect of prior year catastrophe reserve reestimates — — (0.5)
Adjusted net income return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity is a ratio that uses a non-GAAP measure. It is
calculated by dividing the rolling 12-month adjusted net income by the average of Allstate common shareholders’ equity
at the beginning and at the end of the 12-months, after excluding the effect of unrealized net capital gains and losses.
Return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity is the most directly comparable GAAP measure. We use adjusted net
income as the numerator for the same reasons we use adjusted net income, as discussed previously. We use average
112200 TThhee AAllllssttaattee CCoorrppoorraattiioonn || AAllllssttaatteePPrrooxxyy..ccoomm2024 Proxy Statement
Other Information
Allstate common shareholders’ equity excluding the effect of unrealized net capital gains and losses for the denominator
as a representation of common shareholders’ equity primarily applicable to Allstate’s earned and realized business
operations because it eliminates the effect of items that are unrealized and vary significantly between periods due to
external economic developments such as capital market conditions like changes in equity prices and interest rates, the
amount and timing of which are unrelated to the insurance underwriting process. We use it to supplement our evaluation
of net income (loss) applicable to common shareholders and return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity because it
excludes the effect of items that tend to be highly variable from period to period. We believe that this measure is useful
to investors and that it provides a valuable tool for investors when considered along with return on Allstate common
shareholders’ equity because it eliminates the after-tax effects of realized and unrealized net capital gains and losses that
can fluctuate significantly from period to period and that are driven by economic developments, the magnitude and timing
of which are generally not influenced by management. In addition, it eliminates non-recurring items that are not indicative
of our ongoing business or economic trends. A byproduct of excluding the items noted above to determine adjusted
net income return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity from return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity is the
transparency and understanding of their significance to return on common shareholders’ equity variability and profitability
while recognizing these or similar items may recur in subsequent periods. We use adjusted measures of adjusted net
income return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity in incentive compensation. Therefore, we believe it is useful for
investors to have adjusted net income return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity and return on Allstate common
shareholders’ equity when evaluating our performance. We note that investors, financial analysts, financial and business
media organizations and rating agencies utilize adjusted net income return on common shareholders’ equity results in
their evaluation of our and our industry’s financial performance and in their investment decisions, recommendations and
communications as it represents a reliable, representative and consistent measurement of the industry and the company
and management’s utilization of capital. We also provide it to facilitate a comparison to our long-term adjusted net income
return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity goal. Adjusted net income return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity
should not be considered a substitute for return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity and does not reflect the overall
profitability of our business.
The following tables reconcile return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity and adjusted net income return on Allstate
common shareholders’ equity for the years ended December 31.
($ in millions) 2023 2022(1) 2021(1)
Return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity
Numerator:
Net income (loss) applicable to common shareholders $ (316) $(1,394) $ 1,500
Denominator:
Beginning Allstate common shareholders’ equity $15,518 $22,974 $28,247
Ending Allstate common shareholders’ equity(2) 15,769 15,518 22,974
Average Allstate common shareholders’ equity $15,644 $19,246 $25,611
Return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity (2.0)% (7.2)% 5.9%
2023 2022(1) 2021(1)
Adjusted net income return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity
Numerator:
Adjusted net income (loss)* $ 251 $ (239) $ 4,048
Denominator:
Beginning Allstate common shareholders’ equity $15,518 $22,974 $28,247
Less: Unrealized net capital gains and losses (2,255) 598 3,180
Adjusted beginning Allstate common shareholders’ equity 17,773 22,376 25,067
Ending Allstate common shareholders’ equity(2) 15,769 15,518 22,974
Less: Unrealized net capital gains and losses (604) (2,255) 598
Adjusted ending Allstate common shareholders’ equity 16,373 17,773 22,376
Average adjusted Allstate common shareholders’ equity $17,073 $20,075 $23,722
Adjusted net income (loss) return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity* 1.5% (1.2)% 17.1%
(1) 2022 and 2021 periods have been recast to reflect the impact of the adoption of the FASB guidance revising the accounting for certain long-duration
insurance contracts.
(2) Excludes equity related to preferred stock of $2,001 million as of December 31, 2023, and $1,970 as of December 31, 2022 and 2021.
TThhee AAllllssttaattee CCoorrppoorraattiioonn || AAllllssttaatteePPrrooxxyy..ccoomm 1122112024 Proxy Statement
Other Information
Appendix B – Categorical Standards of Independence
In accordance with the Director Independence Standards, the Board has determined that the nature of the following
relationships with the corporation do not create a conflict of interest that would impair a director’s independence.
1. An Allstate director’s relationship arising from (i) only such director’s position as a director of another corporation or
organization; (ii) only such director’s direct or indirect ownership of a 5% or less equity interest in another corporation or
organization (other than a partnership); (iii) both such position and such ownership; or (iv) such director’s position only as
a limited partner in a partnership in which he or she has an interest of 5% or less.
2. An Allstate director’s relationship arising from an interest of the director, or any entity in which the director is an
employee, director, partner, shareholder or officer, in or under any standard-form insurance policy or other financial
product offered by the Allstate Group in the ordinary course of business.
3. An Allstate director’s relationship with another company that participates in a transaction with the Allstate Group
(i) where the rates or charges involved are determined by competitive bid or (ii) where the transaction involves the
rendering of services as a common or contract carrier (including any airline) or public utility at rates or charges fixed in
conformity with law or governmental authority.
4. An Allstate director’s relationship with another company that has made payments to, or received payments from, the
Allstate Group for property or services in an amount which, in the last fiscal year, does not exceed the greater of $1
million or 2% of such other company’s consolidated gross revenues for such year.
5. An Allstate director’s position as an executive officer of a tax-exempt organization to which the aggregate amount of
discretionary contributions (other than employee matching contributions) made by the Allstate Group and The Allstate
Foundation in any of the last three fiscal years of the tax-exempt organization were equal to or less than the greater of
$1 million or 2% of such organization’s consolidated gross revenues for such year.
6. An Allstate director’s relationship with another company (i) in which the Allstate Group makes investments or (ii) which
invests in securities issued by the Allstate Group or securities backed by any product issued by the Allstate Group, all
in the ordinary course of such entity’s investment business and on terms and under circumstances similar to those
available to or from entities unaffiliated with such director.
112222 TThhee AAllllssttaattee CCoorrppoorraattiioonn || AAllllssttaatteePPrrooxxyy..ccoomm2024 Proxy Statement
Other Information
Appendix C – Executive Officers
The following table lists the names and titles of our executive officers as of April 1, 2024. AIC refers to Allstate
Insurance Company.
Name Principal Positions and Offices Held
Thomas J. Wilson Chair of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of The Allstate Corporation and AIC.
Elizabeth A. Brady Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing, Customer and Communications Officer of AIC.
Christine DeBiase Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary of The Allstate
Corporation and AIC.
Jesse E. Merten Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Allstate Corporation and AIC.
John E. Dugenske President, Investments and Corporate Strategy of AIC.
Suren Gupta President, Protection Products and Enterprise Services of AIC.
Zulfikar Jeevanjee Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer of AIC.
John C. Pintozzi Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of The Allstate Corporation and of AIC.
Mark Q. Prindiville Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of AIC.
Mario Rizzo President, Property-Liability of AIC.
Robert Toohey Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of AIC.
TThhee AAllllssttaattee CCoorrppoorraattiioonn || AAllllssttaatteePPrrooxxyy..ccoomm 112233Helpful Links and Resources
About Allstate Sustainability
Company Website Overview
https://www.allstate.com/ https://www.allstatesustainability.com
The Allstate Foundation Sustainability Report
https://allstatefoundation.org/?_ www.allstatesustainability.com/2023SR
ga=2.233644824.70414277.1634117375-1354564632.1627444396
TCFD Report
Sustainability www.allstatesustainability.com/2023tcfd
https://www.allstatesustainability.com/
CDP Climate Response
www.allstatesustainability.com/2023cdp
Governance
GRI Index
www.allstatesustainability.com/reporting/gri
Overview
https://www.allstateinvestors.com/governance SASB Index
www.allstatesustainability.com/2023sasb
Corporate Governance Guidelines
https://www.allstateinvestors.com/static-files/b32c67db-6f4a- EEO-1 Report
4afb-9c2d-ffe5d2b1b12a www.allstatesustainability.com/2023eeo1
Bylaws of The Allstate Corporation
https://www.allstateinvestors.com/static-files/dd3f893c-035f-
4896-a82c-a3e5ae606a51
Audit Committee Charter
https://www.allstateinvestors.com/static-files/3dfddc3a-6f10-
4c3e-b154-bd3db57aafc4
Compensation and Human Capital Committee Charter
https://www.allstateinvestors.com/static-files/3d99e53e-579a-
4e46-9bdd-338c50702ec4
Executive Committee Charter
https://www.allstateinvestors.com/static-files/275b63c0-6823-
4678-add2-9fcd161330fc
Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility
Committee Charter
https://www.allstateinvestors.com/static-files/94ae2405-05d8-
4fab-b435-1798d7ab91ff
Risk and Return Committee Charter
https://www.allstateinvestors.com/static-files/140622f6-f4ca-
4e14-9d40-cbd88a549f25
Code of Conduct
https://www.allstateinvestors.com/governance/code-conduct
124 The Allstate Corporation | AllstateProxy.comAnnual
Report2023 Annual Report
Table of Contents
Page
Business 128
• Overview 128
• Strategy and Segment Information 129
– Allstate Protection 131
– Protection Services 136
– Allstate Health and Benefits 137
– Other Business Segments 138
Forward-Looking Statements 139
Common Stock Performance Graph 140
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 141
2023 Highlights 141
Property-Liability Operations 146
Allstate Protection 148
Run-off Property-Liability 156
Protection Services 159
Property and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves 161
Allstate Health and Benefits 168
Investments 170
Market Risk 179
Capital Resources and Liquidity 182
Enterprise Risk and Return Management 187
Application of Critical Accounting Estimates 190
Regulation and Legal Proceedings 201
Pending Accounting Standards 201
Consolidated Financial Statements 202
Consolidated Statements of Operations 202
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) 203
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 204
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity 205
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 206
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 207
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 293
127 www.allstate.comBusiness Segment Information
Business Allstate also has strong market positions in other
protection solutions. Allstate Protection Plans provides
The Allstate Corporation was incorporated under protection on a wide variety of consumer goods such
the laws of the State of Delaware on November 5, 1992, as cell phones, tablets, computers, furniture and
to serve as the holding company for Allstate Insurance appliances, and has a leading position in distribution
Company. Its business is conducted principally through through major retailers. Allstate Identity Protection has
Allstate Insurance Company and other subsidiaries a leading position in identity protection through
(collectively, including The Allstate Corporation, workplace benefit programs. In total, Allstate had 194
“Allstate”). million policies in force (“PIF”) as of December 31, 2023.
Allstate Health and Benefits provides accident, health
Allstate protects people from life’s uncertainties
and life insurance through employers, independent
with a wide array of protection for autos, homes and
agents and direct-to-consumer, and is one of the top
personal property. Allstate is primarily engaged in the
voluntary benefits carriers in the market.
property and casualty insurance business in the United
States and Canada. Additionally, Allstate provides In this Annual Report, we occasionally refer to
customers other protection solutions such as statutory financial information. All domestic United
protection plans that cover consumer electronics, States insurance companies are required to prepare
mobile phones and appliances, personal identity statutory-basis financial statements. As a result,
protection and accident and health insurance. On industry data is available that enables comparisons
November 1, 2023, we announced that we are pursuing between insurance companies, including competitors
the sale of the Health and Benefits business. that are not required to prepare financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally
The Allstate Corporation is one of the largest
accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). We
publicly held personal lines insurers in the United
frequently use industry publications containing
States. Allstate’s personal property-liability strategy is
statutory financial information to assess our
to increase market share by offering consumers a
competitive position.
broad suite of protection solutions and a competitive
value proposition across distribution channels. The
Allstate brand is widely known through the “You’re In
Good Hands With Allstate®” slogan. Allstate is the
second largest personal property and casualty insurer
in the United States on the basis of 2022 statutory
direct premiums written according to A.M. Best.
128 2023 Annual ReportBusiness Segment Information
Strategy, Transformative Growth, Our Shared Purpose and Segment Information
Our strategy has two components: increase personal property-liability market share (see Allstate Protection
segment) and expand protection offerings by leveraging the Allstate brand, customer base and capabilities.
We are expanding protection services businesses utilizing enterprise capabilities and resources such as the
Allstate brand, distribution, analytics, claims, investment expertise, talent and capital. Using innovative growth
platforms (such as telematics and identity protection) and broad distribution including: Allstate exclusive agents,
independent agents, contact centers, online, retailers, workplace benefits brokers, auto dealers, original equipment
manufacturers and telecom providers further enhance our customer value proposition.
Transformative Growth is about creating a business model, capabilities and culture that continually transform to
better serve customers. This is done by providing affordable, simple and connected protection through multiple
distribution channels. The ultimate objective is to enhance customer value to drive growth in all businesses.
129 www.allstate.comBusiness Segment Information
Our Shared Purpose
As the good hands... our values our operating standards our behaviors
• We empower customers • Integrity is non-negotiable. • Focus on Customers by • Collaborate early and
with protection to help anticipating and exceeding often to develop and
them achieve their hopes • Inclusive Diversity & service expectations at low implement comprehensive
and dreams. Equityvalues and costs. solutions and share
leverages unique identities
learnings.
• We provide affordable, with equitable opportunity • Be the Best at protecting
simple and connected and rewards. customers, developing • Challenge Ideas to
protection solutions. talent and running our leverage collective
• Collective Success is
businesses. expertise, evaluate multiple
• We create opportunity achieved through empathy
alternatives and create the
for our team, economic and prioritizing enterprise • Be Bold with original ideas
best path forward.
value for our shareholders outcomes ahead of using speed and
and improve communities. individuals. conviction to beat the • Provide Clarity for
competition. expected outcomes,
decision authority and
• Earn Attractive Returns
accountability.
by providing customer
value, proactively • Provide Feedback that is
accepting risk and using candid, actionable,
analytics. independent of hierarchy
and safe.
Reportable segments
Includes the Allstate brand, National General and Answer Financial. Offers private passenger auto,
Allstate Protection (1) homeowners, other personal lines and commercial insurance through agents, contact centers and
online.
Includes Allstate Protection Plans, Allstate Dealer Services, Allstate Roadside, Arity and Allstate
Protection Services Identity Protection, which offer a broad range of solutions and services that expand and enhance our
customer value propositions.
Offers voluntary benefits and individual life and health products, including life, accident, critical illness,
Allstate Health and short-term disability and other health insurance products sold through independent agents, benefits
Benefits brokers and Allstate exclusive agents. Also provides stop-loss and fully insured group health products
to employers and short-term medical and medicare supplement insurance to individuals.
Run-off Property- Relates to property and casualty insurance policies written during the 1960s through the mid-1980s
Liability (1) with exposure to asbestos, environmental and other claims in run-off.
Corporate and Other Includes debt service, holding company activities and certain non-insurance operations.
(1) Allstate Protection and Run-off Property-Liability segments comprise Property-Liability.
130 2023 Annual ReportBusiness Segment Information
Allstate Protection Segment
Our Allstate Protection segment accounted for 92.2% of Allstate’s 2023 consolidated insurance premiums and
contract charges and 19.4% of Allstate’s December 31, 2023 PIF. This segment includes private passenger auto,
homeowners, other personal lines and commercial insurance products offered through agents and directly through
contact centers and online. Our strategy is to offer products that allow customers to interact with us when, where and
how they want with affordable, simple and connected protection products.
Strategy Allstate Protection’s strategy is to increase personal lines market share through Transformative Growth
focusing on:
• Improving customer value by making it easier to do business with us, providing competitive prices and
differentiated products and experiences
• Expanding customer access to Allstate and National General products and services through the methods of
interaction customers want
• Increasing sophistication and investment in customer acquisition
• Deploying new technology ecosystems that are more flexible and enable an enhanced customer experience
• Driving organizational transformation
We have three market-facing property-liability businesses, Allstate brand, National General and Answer Financial
with products and services that cater to different customer needs and distribution preferences.
We serve our customers using differentiated products, analytical expertise, telematics, claims capabilities and an
integrated digital enterprise that leverages data and technology to execute processes with a focus on greater
effectiveness and efficiency.
Transformative Growth
Improving the competitive prices of products through lower costs, increased pricing sophistication and
telematics
Improve Customer
Expanding the use of telematics and broadening the benefits of being connected with the Allstate
Value
Mobile app
Providing additional protection solutions that enable simpler consumer-friendly experiences
Transforming our Allstate agent sales system to enable more growth at a lower cost, while expanding
our distribution capacity through new agent models
Expand Customer Increasing direct channel distribution through improved online experience and data-driven insights to
Access enhance call center sales
Growing National General by leveraging Allstate brand capabilities and data to expand product
offerings and fully utilize our independent agency relationships
Increase
Sophistication and
Improving the effectiveness of customer acquisition by expanding lead management, building data
Investment in
capabilities and utilizing household insights
Customer
Acquisition
Deploy New
Deploying a new technology ecosystem to deliver affordable, simple, and connected experiences and
Technology
products at a lower cost. This effort will also lead to the retirement of legacy systems
Ecosystem
Drive Deliver an exceptional customer experience enabled by enhanced human resource tools and
Organizational technology, an engaged and high performing global workforce, and organizational designs for
Transformation efficiency
131 www.allstate.comBusiness Segment Information
Additional Information and Strategy Updates
Allstate Protection pricing and risk management hurricanes, earthquakes and wildfires and adjusts
strategies Our pricing and underwriting strategies and based on premium and insured value growth. These
decisions are designed to generate sustainable reinsurance agreements are part of our capital models
profitable growth. and our catastrophe risk management framework. As
of December 31, 2023, the modeled 1-in-100 probable
A proprietary database of underwriting and loss
maximum loss for hurricane, wildfire and earthquake
experience enables sophisticated pricing algorithms
perils is approximately $2.5 billion, net of reinsurance.
and methodologies to more accurately price risks while
We continually review our aggregate risk appetite and
also seeking to attract and retain customers in multiple
the cost and availability of reinsurance to optimize the
risk segments.
risk and return profile of this exposure.
• For auto insurance, risk evaluation factors can
The use of different assumptions and updates to
include, but are not limited to: vehicle make, model
industry models and to our risk transfer program could
and year; driver age and marital status; territory;
materially change the projected loss. Growth strategies
years licensed; loss history; years insured with
include areas where we believe diversification can be
prior carrier; prior liability limits; prior lapse in
enhanced and an appropriate return can be earned for
coverage; and insurance scoring utilizing
the risk. As a result, our modeled exposure may
telematics data and other consumer information.
increase. In addition, we have exposure to other severe
• For property insurance, risk evaluation factors can weather events, which impact catastrophe losses.
include, but are not limited to: the amount of
We are promoting measures to prevent and
insurance purchased; geographic location of the
mitigate losses that are increasing due to climate
property; loss history; age, condition and
change and increased severe weather including
construction characteristics of the property; and
making homes and communities more resilient,
insurance scoring utilizing other consumer
enforcement of stronger building codes, adoption of
information.
sensible land use policies, expanded disaster response
A combination of underwriting information, pricing capabilities and creation of public risk sharing
and discounts are also used to achieve a more mechanisms.
competitive position and growth. The pricing strategy
Independent agent strategy The acquisition of
involves local marketplace pricing and underwriting
National General significantly enhanced our strategic
decisions based on risk evaluation factors to the extent
position in the independent agency channel. The
permissible by applicable law and an evaluation of
transaction increased our total personal property-
competitors.
liability market share by over one percentage point and
Pricing of property products is intended to has enhanced our independent agent-facing
generate risk-adjusted returns that are acceptable technology. It also expanded our distribution footprint,
over a long-term period. Rate increases are pursued to and led us to be a top five personal lines carrier in the
keep pace with loss cost trends, including losses from independent agency distribution channel.
catastrophic events and those that are weather-
National General provides personal and
related (such as wind, hail, lightning and freeze not
commercial automobile, homeowners, umbrella,
meeting our criteria to be declared a catastrophe). We
recreational vehicle and motorcycle insurance, lender-
also take into consideration potential customer
placed products and other niche insurance products.
disruption, the impact on our ability to market our
Auto insurance represents approximately 70% of
products, regulatory limitations, our competitive
premium with a significant presence in the non-
position and profitability.
standard risk auto market. Allstate’s capabilities are
In any reporting period, loss experience from being leveraged to create additional auto and
catastrophic events and weather-related losses may homeowners insurance products to better serve
contribute to negative or positive underwriting middle market customers through independent
performance relative to the expectations incorporated agents.
into product pricing.
As part of the acquisition, Allstate Independent
Property catastrophe exposure is managed with Agency and Encompass organizations are being
the goal of providing shareholders an acceptable integrated into National General by:
return on the risks assumed in the property business,
• Migrating Encompass policyholders and business
and reducing variability of earnings, while providing
operations to National General and retiring the
protection to our customers. Catastrophe exposure
Encompass technology infrastructure
management includes purchasing reinsurance to
provide coverage for known exposure to hurricanes, • Transitioning Encompass and Allstate-branded
earthquakes and fires following earthquakes, wildfires Independent Agent new business to National
and other catastrophes. General as auto and homeowners insurance
products roll out
Our current catastrophe reinsurance program
supports the Company’s risk and return framework
which incorporates our robust economic capital model
and is informed by catastrophe risk models including
132 2023 Annual ReportBusiness Segment Information
Commercial lines strategy The Allstate brand commercial net written premium. Additionally, as of the
commercial insurance strategy is being advanced fourth quarter of 2022, coverage is no longer offered to
through an equity investment and commercial transportation network companies unless the
partnership with NEXT Insurance, a high-growth, digital contracts utilize telematics-based pricing. National
platform for small business insurance. This partnership General commercial auto product lines are expected to
will expand the availability of our commercial lines continue organic growth as well as expand to new
offerings via the NEXT product portfolio, which geographies.
complements the Allstate commercial auto product
Answer Financial strategy Answer Financial is an
suite, across a wider distribution network.
insurance agency that sells other insurance companies’
Profit improvement actions continue for our products directly to customers. Our strategy as a
Allstate brand traditional legacy commercial lines technology-enabled insurance agency is to provide
insurance products, emphasizing pricing, comparison shopping and related services for
claims, operational improvements and non-renewal of businesses, offering customers choice, convenience
policies where we are unable to meet our profit target. and ease of use.
In 2023, Allstate brand began exiting traditional
commercial insurance in five states, which is expected
to be completed by mid-year 2025. These five states
combined made up 36% of 2022 Allstate brand
Products and distribution
Allstate Protection differentiates itself by offering a comprehensive range of affordable, simple and connected
protection solutions across distribution channels for specific consumer segments.
Protection Products
Auto
Homeowners
Insurance
Specialty auto (motorcycle, trailer, motor home and off-road vehicle)
products (1)
Other personal lines (renters, condominium, landlord, boat, umbrella, manufactured home and
scheduled personal property)
Commercial lines
Answer Comparison quotes and sales of non-proprietary auto, homeowners and other personal lines
Financial (condominium, renters, motorcycle, recreational vehicle and boat)
(1) Insurance products are primarily offered by the Allstate and National General brands.
Distribution
In the U.S., we offer products through over 6,400 Allstate exclusive agents operating in
approximately 7,100 locations, supported by 20,200 licensed sales professionals and 700
exclusive financial specialists. We also offer products through approximately 400 market sales
Allstate brand
associates, 7,900 independent agents, 500 direct auto representatives, 600 sales representatives
in contact centers and online. In Canada, we offer Allstate brand products through approximately
500 employee sales agents.
National General (including Distributed through over 43,000 independent agent locations, approximately 520 retail stores,
Encompass) contact centers and online.
Answer Financial Comparison quotes and sales offered to customers online or through contact centers.
Allstate exclusive agents also support the exclusive agent remuneration comprises a base
Protection Services segment through offering roadside commission, variable compensation and a bonus.
assistance and consumer protection plans. We also sell
• Agents receive a monthly base commission
a range of non-proprietary life and annuity insurance
payment as a percentage of their total eligible
products offered by third-party providers.
written premium.
Exclusive agent compensation structure The • Variable compensation rewards agents for
compensation structure for Allstate exclusive agents acquiring new customers by exceeding a base
rewards them for delivering high value to customers production goal.
and achieving certain business outcomes such as
profitable growth and household penetration. Allstate
133 www.allstate.comBusiness Segment Information
• Bonus compensation is based on a percentage of of personal insurance premiums primarily related to
premiums and can be earned by agents who are property business in hurricane exposed areas, and
meeting certain sales goals and selling additional approximately $259 million of commercial insurance
policies to meet customer needs profitably. premiums.
We are addressing a challenging economic Additionally, we offer a homeowners product
environment with modifications to agent through our excess and surplus lines carrier, North
compensation by reducing the emphasis on new Light Specialty Insurance Company, in certain areas
business growth in select geographies. Allstate with higher risk of catastrophes or where customers do
exclusive agent remuneration in select geographies not meet the Allstate brand standard underwriting
comprises a base commission and renewal bonus for profile.
eligible agents that can be earned by profitably
Allstate agents and exclusive financial specialists
retaining customers.
receive commissions for non-proprietary life and
When an Allstate product is not available, agents retirement sales and are eligible for a quarterly bonus
have the ability to earn commissions and additional based on the volume of non-proprietary sales.
bonuses on non-proprietary products provided to
Independent agent remuneration for National
customers through Ivantage, a leading provider of
General comprises a base commission and a bonus
property and casualty brokerage services, and
that can be earned by agents who achieve sales goals
arrangements with other companies, agencies, and
and a target loss ratio.
brokers. As of December 31, 2023, Ivantage had
$2.19 billion non-proprietary premiums under
management, consisting of approximately $1.93 billion
Innovative product offerings and features
Market-leading solutions
Qualified customers choose from a variety of options, such as Accident
Your Choice Auto® Forgiveness, Deductible Rewards®, Safe Driving Bonus® and New Car
Replacement.
Featured options include Claim RateGuard®, Claim-Free Bonus, Deductible
Allstate House and Rewards® and flexibility in options and coverages, including graduated roof
Home® coverage and pricing based on roof type and age for damage related to wind and
hail events.
Auto customers with a qualifying property policy are provided an auto renewal
guarantee and a deductible waiver (when the same event, with the same covered
Bundling Benefits
Allstate brand cause of loss, damages both auto and property). Offered in 47 states and District of
Columbia (“D.C.”) as of December 31, 2023.
Replaces a qualifying customer’s vehicle involved in a total loss accident with a
Auto Replacement
newer vehicle with fewer miles. Offered in 48 states and D.C. as of December 31,
Protection
2023.
Reimagined insurance experience and products, making them affordable, simple
and connected. Examples include fewer questions for customers to answer before
New experience
getting a quote, easy-to-understand coverage descriptions and an industry-leading
and product suite
rating plan. Offered through the web and direct to consumers in seven states for
auto and 17 states for renters as of December 31, 2023.
Endorsements and coverage amounts can be scaled up or down to create a
National General Custom360SM custom, needs-based insurance solution for customers at all stages in life. Offered
in 16 states as of December 31, 2023.
Telematics solutions
Telematics-based program, available in 48 states and D.C. as of December 31,
2023, that uses a mobile application or an in-vehicle device to capture driving
Drivewise®
behaviors and encourage safe driving. It provides customers with information, tools
Allstate brand and more accurate individual pricing.
Usage-based insurance product, available in 17 states as of December 31, 2023,
Milewise® that gives customers flexibility to customize their insurance and pay based on the
number of miles they drive.
Mobile-based telematics application, available in 40 states as of December 31,
National General DynamicDriveSM
2023, used to capture driving behaviors and to more accurately rate customers.
134 2023 Annual ReportBusiness Segment Information
Competition
The personal lines insurance markets, including private passenger auto and homeowners insurance, are highly
competitive. The following charts provide Allstate Protection’s combined market share compared to our principal U.S.
competitors using statutory direct written premium for the year ended December 31, 2022, according to A.M. Best.
Personal lines insurance Private passenger auto insurance
Allstate 10.0% Allstate 10.7%
State Farm 17.2%
State Farm 16.8%
Other 44.9%
Progressive 9.9%
Other 47.8%
GEICO 9.0% Progressive 14.0%
USAA 6.1% GEICO 13.6%
Homeowners insurance
Allstate 8.7%
State Farm 17.8%
Other 53.9%
Liberty Mutual 7.2%
USAA 6.4%
Farmers 6.0%
Geographic markets
We primarily operate in the U.S. (all 50 states and D.C.) and Canada. Our top geographic markets based on 2023
statutory direct premiums are reflected below.
Top geographic markets
Texas 11.8%
California 9.6%
New York 8.0%
Other 62.7%
Florida 7.9%
135 www.allstate.comBusiness Segment Information
Protection Services Segment
Our Protection Services segment accounted for 4.6% of Allstate’s 2023 consolidated total revenue and 78.5% of
Allstate’s December 31, 2023 PIF. Protection Services includes Allstate Protection Plans, Allstate Dealer Services,
Allstate Roadside, Arity andAllstate Identity Protection, which offer a broad range of products and services that
expand and enhance customer value propositions.
Strategy - Protection Services’ strategy is to innovate new products and services, expand distribution and provide
affordable, simple and connected protection solutions.
Allstate Expand distribution and product breadth of consumer protection plans through new and existing retailers
Protection Plans and mobile operators across North America, Europe, Asia and Australia.
Allstate Dealer Expand distribution of Allstate branded protection and insurance products through auto dealerships,
Services business partnerships and direct to consumer.
Modernize the roadside assistance business through technology and enhance capabilities to deliver a
Allstate Roadside
superior customer experience.
Provide industry leading telematics and mobility insights to insurance companies, the transportation
industry and location-enabled consumer apps. Services include: telematics-enabled mobility insights for
Arity consumers and businesses, driving behavior data and scores (Arity IQ) to deliver personalized insurance
pricing, and marketing services including lead generation and advertising technology integrations to
optimize advertising investments.
Allstate Identity Create a leading position in the identity protection market, offering full-service identity protection and
Protection expand partnership and direct to consumer distribution channels.
Products and distribution
Products and services
Provides consumer protection plans and related technical support for mobile phones, consumer
Allstate
electronics, furniture and appliances which provide customers protection from mechanical or electrical
Protection Plans
failure, and in certain cases, accidental damage.
Allstate Dealer Offers protection and insurance products, including vehicle service contracts, guaranteed asset protection
Services waivers, road hazard tire and wheel protection, and paint and fabric protection.
Offers towing, jump-start, lockout, fuel delivery and tire change services to retail customers and customers
Allstate Roadside
of our wholesale partners.
Provides insights and services created from data collected, normalized and analyzed by the Arity platform,
Arity including automotive telematics information. Product suite includes on-demand risk scoring, lead
generation, digital advertising, data integration, traditional telematics, and data-as-a-service solutions.
Allstate Identity
Provides identity, consumer cybersecurity, privacy and family digital safety protection.
Protection
Distribution channels
Allstate
Retailers and mobile operators, in-store or online.
Protection Plans
Allstate Dealer Independent agents selling through auto dealerships in the U.S. in conjunction with the purchase of a new
Services or used vehicle, through business partnerships and direct to consumer.
Allstate exclusive agents, direct to consumer, wholesale partners, affinity groups and on-demand mobile
Allstate Roadside
application service.
Arity Sells directly to affiliate and non-affiliate customers and through strategic partners.
Allstate Identity Primarily through workplace benefit programs with growth in partnerships and direct to consumer
Protection delivered through enterprise partnerships, online and mobile application sales.
Geographic markets
Protection Services primarily operates in the U.S. and Canada, with Allstate Protection Plans also offering services
in Europe, Australia and Asia.
Competition
We compete on a variety of factors, including product offerings, brand recognition, financial strength, price and
customer experience. The market for these services is highly competitive.
136 2023 Annual ReportBusiness Segment Information
Allstate Health and Benefits Segment
Strategy Competition
Allstate Health and Benefits segment accounted We compete on a wide variety of factors, including
for 4.2% of Allstate’s 2023 consolidated total revenue product offerings, brand recognition, financial strength
and 2.1% of Allstate’s December 31, 2023 PIF. The and ratings, price, distribution and customer service.
Allstate Health and Benefits segment provides
The market for voluntary benefits is growing as
consumers with financial protection against the risk of
these products help employees fill the increasing gaps
accidents, illness and mortality. We are among the
associated with continued medical cost inflation and
industry leaders in the growing and highly competitive
the shifting of costs from employers to employees.
voluntary benefits market, offering a broad range of
Favorable industry and economic trends have
accident, health and life products through workplace
increased competitive pressure and attracted new
enrollment. Our life insurance portfolio includes
traditional and non-traditional entrants to the
individual and group permanent life solutions. We also
voluntary benefits market. Recent entrants, including
provide stop-loss and fully insured group health
large group medical, life and disability insurance
products to employers and short-term medical and
carriers, are leveraging core benefit capabilities by
medicare supplement insurance to individuals. Target
bundling and discounting to capture voluntary market
customers are consumers with family and financial
share. We also compete with large group medical
protection needs. Allstate Health and Benefits is well
carriers in our stop-loss, fully insured group health
represented in all market segments and is a leader in
insurance, short-term medical and medicare
the large and mega (over 10,000 employees) market
supplement insurance offerings.
segments.
Geographic markets
Allstate Health and Benefits is differentiated
through its broad product portfolio, flexible enrollment We primarily operate in the U.S. (all 50 states and
solutions, strong national accounts team and well- D.C.) and Canada. The top geographic markets based
recognized brand. on 2023 statutory direct premiums are reflected below.
Our strategy for growth is to deliver substantially Top geographic markets
more value through innovative products and
technology, tailored solutions and exceptional service
through investments in future-state technologies and Florida 11.1%
data and analytics capabilities.
Texas 10.9%
On November 1, 2023, we announced that we are
Georgia 5.6%
pursuing the sale of the Health and Benefits business.
Products and distribution
Health and benefits products
Employer voluntary benefits Other 72.4%
Group health
Individual health
Distribution channels
Over 8,000 independent agents and benefits brokers and
Allstate exclusive agents, focusing on workplace benefits
for small employers, specifically employer voluntary
benefits and group health
Over 33,000 independent agents, in-house agencies,
direct-to-consumer marketing, wholesaling, worksite
marketing and the internet for individual health
137 www.allstate.comBusiness Segment Information
Other Business Segments
Run-off Property-Liability Segment
The Run-off Property-Liability segment includes results from property and casualty insurance coverage that
primarily relates to policies written during the 1960s through the mid-1980s.
Strategy Management of this segment has been assigned to a designated group of professionals with expertise
in claims handling, policy coverage interpretation, exposure identification, litigation and reinsurance collection. We may
pursue settlement agreements including policy buybacks on direct excess commercial business when appropriate to
improve the certainty of the liabilities. Settlement agreements are negotiated contracts between Allstate and third
parties that generally set forth the rights and obligations of the parties, including terms of payment for claims. At the
end of 2023, 68% of the gross case reserves, excluding incurred but not reported, on the run-off direct excess
commercial business were attributable to settlement agreements. This group also manages other direct commercial
and assumed reinsurance business in runoff and engages in reinsurance ceded and assumed commutations as
required or when considered economically advantageous.
Changes in the reserves established for asbestos, environmental and other run-off lines losses have occurred and
may continue. Reserve changes can be caused by new information relating to new and additional claims, new
exposures or the impact of resolving unsettled claims based on unanticipated events such as arbitrations, litigation,
legislative, judicial or regulatory actions. Environmental losses may also increase as the result of additional funding for
environmental site clean-up.
Challenges related to the concentration of insurance and reinsurance claims from companies who specialize in this
business continue to be addressed.
Corporate and Other Segment
Our Corporate and Other segment is comprised of debt service, holding company activities and certain non-
insurance operations, including expenses associated with strategic initiatives, such as our Avail peer-to-peer car-
sharing initiative.
138 2023 Annual ReportForward-Looking Statements
Forward-Looking Statements
This report contains “forward-looking statements” that anticipate results based on our estimates, assumptions and
plans that are subject to uncertainty. These statements are made subject to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts
and may be identified by their use of words like “plans,” “seeks,” “expects,” “will,” “should,” “anticipates,” “estimates,”
“intends,” “believes,” “likely,” “targets” and other words with similar meanings. These statements may address, among
other things, our strategy for growth, catastrophe exposure management, product development, investment results,
regulatory approvals, market position, expenses, financial results, litigation and reserves. We believe that these
statements are based on reasonable estimates, assumptions and plans. Forward-looking statements speak only as of
the date on which they are made, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result
of new information or future events or developments. In addition, forward-looking statements are subject to certain
risks or uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those communicated in these forward-
looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by,
the forward-looking statements include risks related to:
Insurance and Financial Services(1) actual claim costs exceeding current reserves; (2) unexpected increases in claim
frequency or severity; (3) catastrophes and severe weather events; (4) limitations in analytical models used for loss cost
estimates; (5)price competition and changes in regulation and underwriting standards; (6)market risk, inflation, and
declines in credit quality of our investment portfolios; (7)our subjective determination of fair value and amount of credit
losses for investments; (8)our participation in indemnification programs, including state industry pools and facilities; (9)
inability to mitigate the impact associated with changes in capital requirements;(10)a downgrade in financial strength
ratings;
Business, Strategy and Operations(11) operations in markets that are highly competitive; (12) changing consumer
preferences; (13) new or changing technologies; (14)implementation of our Transformative Growth strategy;(15) our
catastrophe management strategy; (16) restrictions on our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends; (17)restrictions under
terms of certain of our securities on our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our stock; (18)the availability of
reinsurance at current levels and prices; (19)counterparty risk related to reinsurance; (20)acquisitions and divestitures
of businesses; (21)intellectual property infringement, misappropriation and third-party claims; (22) vendor-related
business disruptions or failure of a vendor to provide and protect data, confidential and proprietary information, or
personal information of our customers, claimants or employees; (23) our ability to attract, develop and retain talent;
Macro, Regulatory and Risk Environment(24)conditions in the global economy and capital markets; (25)a large-scale
pandemic, the occurrence of terrorism, military actions or social unrest; (26)the failure in cyber or other information
security controls, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery processes and business
continuity planning; (27)changing climate and weather conditions; (28) evolving environmental, social and governance
standards and expectations; (29) restrictive regulations and regulatory reforms in the U.S. and internationally; (30)
regulatory limitations on rate increases and requirements to underwrite business and participate in loss sharing
arrangements;(31) losses from legal and regulatory actions;(32) changes in or the application of accounting standards
and changes in tax laws; and (33) misconduct or fraudulent acts by employees, agents and third parties.
Additional information concerning these and other factors may be found in our filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, including the “Risk Factors” section in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K.
139 www.allstate.comCommon Stock Performance Graph
Common stock performance graph
The following performance graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on Allstate common stock for
a five-year period (December 31, 2018 to December 31, 2023) with the cumulative total return of the S&P Property and
Casualty Insurance Index (S&P P/C) and the S&P 500 stock index.
Value at Each Year-End
of $100 Initial Investment Made on December 31, 2018
Allstate v. Published Indices
$250
$225
$200
$175
$150
$125
$100
$75
12/31/18 12/31/19 12/31/20 12/31/21 12/31/22 12/31/23
Allstate S&P P/C S&P 500
Value at each year-end of $100 initial investment made on December 31, 2018
12/31/2018 12/31/2019 12/31/2020 12/31/2021 12/31/2022 12/31/2023
Allstate $ 100.00 $ 138.82 $ 138.65 $ 152.35 $ 180.29 $ 191.72
S&P P/C $ 100.00 $ 125.87 $ 133.84 $ 157.27 $ 186.95 $ 207.04
S&P 500 $ 100.00 $ 131.47 $ 155.65 $ 200.29 $ 163.98 $ 207.04
140 2023 Annual Report2023 Highlights
2023 Highlights
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
2023 Highlights
Overview Measuring segment profit or loss
The following discussion highlights significant The measure of segment profit or loss used in
factors influencing the consolidated financial position evaluating performance is underwriting income for the
and results of operations of The Allstate Corporation Allstate Protection and Run-off Property-Liability
(referred to in this document as “we,” “our,” “us,” the segments and adjusted net income for the Protection
“Company” or “Allstate”). It should be read in Services, Allstate Health and Benefits, and Corporate
conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and Other segments.
and related notes.
Underwriting income is calculated as premiums
A discussion of strategy, including updates to the earned and other revenue, less claims and claims
multi-year Transformative Growth initiative, can be expense (“losses”), Shelter-in-Place Payback expense,
found in Strategy and Segment Information. amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs
(“DAC”), operating costs and expenses, amortization or
This section of this 2023 Annual Report generally
impairment of purchased intangibles, and restructuring
discusses 2023 and 2022 results and year-to-year
and related charges, as determined using accounting
comparisons between 2023 and 2022. Discussions of
principles generally accepted in the United States of
2021 results and year-to-year comparisons between
America (“GAAP”). We use this measure in our
2022 and 2021 that are not included in this report can
evaluation of results of operations to analyze
be found in Management’s Discussion and Analysis
profitability.
(“MD&A”) in Part II, Item 7 of our annual report on Form
10-K for 2022, filed February 16, 2023. Certain amounts Adjusted net income is net income (loss) applicable
have been reclassified or recast to reflect the to common shareholders, excluding:
application of the new guidance to all in-scope long-
• Net gains and losses on investments and derivatives
duration insurance contracts and to conform to current
year presentation. • Pension and other postretirement remeasurement
gains and losses
The most important factors we monitor to evaluate • Business combination expenses and the amortization
the financial condition and performance for our or impairment of purchased intangibles
reportable segments and the Company include:
• Income or loss from discontinued operations
• Allstate Protection: premium, policies in force • Gain or loss on disposition
(“PIF”), new business sales, policy retention, price • Adjustments for other significant non-recurring,
changes, claim frequency and severity, infrequent or unusual items, when (a) the nature of the
charge or gain is such that it is reasonably unlikely to
catastrophes, loss ratio, expenses, underwriting
recur within two years, or (b) there has been no similar
results and combined ratio
charge or gain within the prior two years
• Protection Services: revenues, premium written, PIF • Income tax expense or benefit on reconciling items
and adjusted net income
• Allstate Health and Benefits: premiums, other
revenue, new business sales, PIF, benefit ratio,
expenses and adjusted net income
• Investments: exposure to market risk, asset
allocation, credit quality, total return, net
investment income, cash flows, net gains and losses
on investments and derivatives, unrealized capital
gains and losses, long-term returns and asset
duration
• Financial condition: liquidity, parent holding
company deployable assets, financial strength
ratings, operating leverage, debt levels, book value
per share and return on equity
141 www.allstate.com2023 Highlights
Macroeconomic Impacts results of operations”. This is not inclusive of all
potential impacts and should not be treated as such.
Macroeconomic factors have and may continue to
Within the MD&A, we have included further disclosures
impact the results of our operations, financial condition
related to macroeconomic impacts on our 2023 results.
and liquidity, such as U.S. government fiscal and
monetary policies, banking system instability, the Israel/Hamas Conflict
Russia/Ukraine and Israel/Hamas conflicts and the
As of December 31, 2023, we have approximately
remaining impacts of the Novel Coronavirus Pandemic
$47 million investment exposure in the Middle East, of
or COVID-19 (“Coronavirus”), such as supply chain
which approximately $43 million is held in Israel, which
disruptions, labor shortages and other macroeconomic
is primarily indirect exposure through funds managed
factors that have increased inflation.
by external asset managers.
Inflation continues to remain elevated, which led to
Russia/Ukraine Conflict
increases in interest rates by the Federal Reserve and
many foreign governmental authorities and central The Russia-Ukraine war and related sanctions
banks. These actions could create significant economic imposed as a result of this conflict have increased
uncertainty. Market volatility resulting from these global economic and political uncertainty, including
factors and from disruptions in the banking industry inflationary pressures and an increased risk of
have and may continue to impact our investment cybersecurity incidents. Allstate does not have
valuations and returns. operations or direct investments in Russia, Belarus or
Ukraine, but we could experience significant indirect
These factors have affected our operations and
impacts on the investment portfolio, financial position,
may continue to significantly affect our results of
or results of operations.
operations, financial condition and liquidity and should
be considered when comparing the current period to 2023 Operating Priorities and Results
prior periods. Macroeconomic impacts are disclosed in
Allstate continued to focus on its operating
Form 10-K Part 1 “Item 1A. Risk Factors’’, including the
priorities while executing a comprehensive plan to
risk factors titled “A large-scale pandemic, the
improve auto insurance profitability. The table below
occurrence of terrorism, military actions, social unrest
summarizes the results of our 2023 Operating
or other actions may have an adverse effect on our
Priorities.
business” and “Conditions in the global economy and
capital markets could adversely affect our business and
2023 Operating Priorities(1)
Enterprise Net Promoter Score, which measures how likely customers are to recommend Allstate,
Improve Customer
finished below the prior year, reflecting the impact of substantial price increases necessary to offset
Value
higher loss costs.
Consolidated policies in force reached 194 million, a 2.8% increase from prior year. Property-Liability
policies in force decreased by 2.0% compared to the prior year, as continued growth at National
Grow Customer General was more than offset by the Allstate brand and renewals declined in the auto insurance
Base business.
Protection Services policies in force increased 4.3%, primarily due to growth at Allstate Protection
Plans.
Return on average Allstate common shareholders’ equity was (2.0)% in 2023.
Achieve Target
Economic Returns The Property-Liability combined ratio of 104.5 for the full year decreased compared to the prior year
on Capital primarily reflecting increased premiums earned, partially offsetting continued high loss costs. A
comprehensive profitability plan is being executed.
Net investment income of $2.48 billion in 2023 was $75 million higher than prior year as higher market-
based investment income was partially offset by lower performance-based results.
Proactively Manage
Investments Total return on the $66.68 billion investment portfolio was 6.7% in 2023. Proactive portfolio
management repositioned the fixed income portfolio into longer duration and higher-yielding assets
that sustainably increase income.
Allstate made substantial progress in advancing Transformative Growth in 2023, including continued
cost reductions, deploying a new property-liability technology platform and a new Affordable, Simple
Execute
and Connected auto insurance offering in seven states.
Transformative
Growth National General is building a strong competitive position in independent agent distribution.
Build a digital enterprise by expanding utilization of machine-based learning and artificial intelligence.
(1) 2024 operating priorities will remain mostly consistent with the 2023priorities.
142 2023 Annual Report2023 Highlights
Consolidated net income (loss) applicable to common shareholders
($ in millions)
$2,000
$1,500
Consolidated net loss applicable to common
shareholders was $316 million in 2023 compared to net
loss of $1.39 billion in 2022, primarily due to improved
underwriting results and net gains on equity valuations
$0 compared to losses in 2022.
$(316) For the twelve months ended December 31, 2023, return
on Allstate common shareholders’ equity was (2.0)%
compared to (7.2)% for the twelve months ended
$(1,394) December 31, 2022.
$(2,000)
2023 2022 2021
Total revenue
($ in millions)
$57,094
$60,000
$51,411 $50,601
$40,000
Total revenue increased11.1% to $57.09 billion in 2023
compared to 2022, primarily due to a 10.4% increase in
$20,000 property and casualty insurance premiums earned and
net gains on equity valuations in 2023 compared to
losses in 2022.
$0
2023 2022 2021
Net investment income
($ in millions)
$4,000
$3,293
$2,478 $2,403
Net investment incomeincreased$75 million to $2.48
$2,000 billion in 2023 compared to 2022, primarily due to higher
market-based income reflecting increased fixed income
portfolio yields and investment balances, partially offset
by lower performance-based investment results.
$0
2023 2022 2021
143 www.allstate.com2023 Highlights
Summarized financial results
Years Ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Revenues
Property and casualty insurance premiums $ 50,670 $ 45,904 $ 42,218
Accident and health insurance premiums and contract charges 1,846 1,832 1,834
Other revenue 2,400 2,344 2,172
Net investment income 2,478 2,403 3,293
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives (300) (1,072) 1,084
Total revenues 57,094 51,411 50,601
Costs and expenses
Property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense (41,070) (37,264) (29,318)
Shelter-in-Place Payback expense — — (29)
Accident, health and other policy benefits (1,071) (1,042) (1,060)
Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (7,278) (6,634) (6,236)
Operating, restructuring and interest expenses (7,685) (7,832) (7,760)
Pension and other postretirement remeasurement gains (losses) (9) (116) 644
Amortization of purchased intangibles (329) (353) (376)
Total costs and expenses (57,442) (53,241) (44,135)
(Loss) income from operations before income tax expense (348) (1,830) 6,466
Income tax benefit (expense) 135 488 (1,292)
Net (loss) income from continuing operations (213) (1,342) 5,174
Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax — — (3,593)
Net (loss) income (213) (1,342) 1,581
Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (25) (53) (33)
Net (loss) income attributable to Allstate (188) (1,289) 1,614
Preferred stock dividends (128) (105) (114)
Net (loss) income applicable to common shareholders $ (316) $ (1,394) $ 1,500
Segment Highlights Allstate Health and Benefits adjusted net income
was $242 million in 2023 compared to $245 million in
Allstate Protection underwriting loss was $2.09
2022. The decrease was primarily due to a decline in
billion in 2023 compared to underwriting loss of
employer voluntary benefits, partially offset by
$2.78 billion in 2022, due to increased premiums
increases in individual and group health.
earned and lower unfavorable non-catastrophe reserve
reestimates, partially offset by higher incurred losses Premiums and contract charges totaled $1.85
and higher catastrophe losses of $5.64 billion in 2023 billion in 2023, an increase of 0.8% from $1.83 billion in
compared to $3.11 billion in 2022. 2022primarily due to growth in group health, partially
offset by a decline in employer voluntary benefits and
Premiums written increased10.0% to $50.35 billion
individual health.
in 2023 compared to $45.79 billion in 2022, reflecting
higher premiums in both Allstate and National General Income Taxes
brands.
The effective tax rate is the ratio of income tax
Protection Services adjusted net income was $106 (benefit) expense divided by (loss) income from
million in 2023 compared to $169 million in 2022. The operations before income tax expense. The effective
decrease in 2023 was due to higher appliance and tax rate for 2023 was 38.8% compared to 26.7% in 2022
furniture claim severity at Allstate Protection Plans and due to the total income tax benefit measured against a
lower third-party lead sales at Arity, partially offset by lower loss from operations before income tax expense
improved margins at Allstate Roadside and lower of $348 million in 2023 compared to a loss of $1.83
expenses at Allstate Identity Protection. Adjusted net billion in 2022.
income was also impacted by an increase in state
In both years, the effective tax rate was higher
income taxes and deferred tax liabilities for Allstate
than the 21% federal statutory income tax rate,
Dealer Services.
primarily due to tax credits, tax-exempt interest
Premiums and other revenues increased9.4% or income and excess tax benefits on shared-based
$220 million to $2.56 billion in 2023 from $2.34 billion in payments, offset by a change in valuation allowance
2022 primarily due to Allstate Protection Plans. and uncertain tax positions. In addition, in 2023, the
Company recorded an additional tax benefit arising
from the liquidation of a foreign subsidiary and the
remeasurement of state deferred income taxes. The
144 2023 Annual Report2023 Highlights
impact of the state deferred income taxes was not Under the new guidance, measurement
material to the consolidated results of operations but assumptions, including those for mortality, morbidity
resulted in a tax expense to Protection Services and a and policy lapses, are required to be reviewed at least
tax benefit to Allstate Protection. annually, and updated as appropriate. In addition,
reserves under the new guidance are required to be
For additional information, see Note 16 of the
discounted using an upper-medium grade fixed
consolidated financial statements.
income instrument yield that is updated through other
Financial Highlights comprehensive income (“OCI”) at each reporting date.
Additionally, deferred policy acquisition costs (“DAC”)
Investments totaled $66.68 billion as of
for all long-duration products are amortized on a
December 31, 2023, increasing from $61.83 billion as of
simplified basis. Also, the Company’s reserve for future
December 31, 2022.
policy benefits and DAC are subject to new disclosure
Allstate shareholders’ equity was $17.77 billion as of guidance.
December 31, 2023 and $17.49 billion as of
In addition, the Company met the conditions
December 31, 2022. The increase is primarily due to
included in Accounting Standards Update No. 2022-05,
lower unrealized net capital losses on investments,
Transition for Sold Contracts, and elected to not apply
partially offset by dividends paid to shareholders,
the new guidance for contracts that were part of the
common share repurchases and a net loss.
2021 sales of Allstate Life Insurance Company (“ALIC”)
Book value per diluted common share (ratio of and Allstate Life Insurance Company of New York
Allstate common shareholders’ equity to total common (“ALNY”).
shares outstanding and dilutive potential common
After-tax cumulative effect of change in accounting
shares outstanding) was $59.39 as of December 31,
principle on transition date
2023, an increase of 2.2% from $58.12 as of
($ in millions) January 1, 2021
December 31, 2022.
Decrease in retained income $ 21
Return on average common Allstate shareholders’ Decrease in accumulated other
equity For the twelve months ended December 31, comprehensive income (“AOCI”) 277
2023, return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity Total decrease in equity $ 298
was (2.0)%, an increase of5.2 points from (7.2)% for the
twelve months ended December 31, 2022, primarily The decrease in AOCI was primarily attributable to
due to lower net loss applicable to common a change in the discount rate used in measuring the
shareholders. reserve for future policy benefits for traditional life
contracts and other long-term products with
Pension and other postretirement remeasurement
guaranteed terms from a portfolio-based rate at
gains and losses We recorded pension and other
contract issuance to an upper-medium grade fixed
postretirement remeasurement losses of $9 million in
income-based rate at the transition date. The decrease
2023, primarily related to losses on the remeasurement
in retained income primarily related to certain cohorts
of the projected benefit obligation driven by a
of long-term contracts whose expected net premiums
decrease in the liability discount rate, partially offset by
exceeded expected gross premiums which resulted in
gains due to favorable asset performance compared to
an increase in reserves and a decrease in retained
expected return on plan assets. See Note 18 of the
income equal to the present value of expected future
consolidated financial statements and Application of
benefits less the present value of expected future
Critical Accounting Estimates section of the MD&A for
premiums at the transition date.
further information.
Adopted accounting standard
Accounting for Long-Duration Insurance Contracts
Effective January 1, 2023, the Company adopted the
Financial Accounting Standards Board (”FASB”)
guidance revising the accounting for certain long-
duration insurance contracts using the modified
retrospective approach to the transition date of
January 1, 2021.
145 www.allstate.comProperty-Liability
Property-Liability Operations
Overview Property-Liability operations consist of Premium measures and statistics are used to
two reportable segments: Allstate Protection and Run- analyze our premium trends and are calculated as
off Property-Liability. These segments are consistent follows:
with the groupings of financial information that
• PIF: policy counts are based on items rather than
management uses to evaluate performance and to
customers. A multi-car customer would generate
determine the allocation of resources.
multiple item (policy) counts, even if all cars were
We do not allocate Property-Liability investment insured under one policy. Commercial lines PIF
income, net gains and losses on investments and counts for shared economy agreements typically
derivatives, or assets to the Allstate Protection and reflect contracts that cover multiple rather than
Run-off Property-Liability segments. Management individual drivers. Lender-placed policies are
reviews assets at the Property-Liability level for excluded from policy counts because relationships
decision-making purposes. are with the lenders.
GAAP operating ratios are used to measure our • New issued applications: item counts of
profitability to enhance an investor’s understanding of automobile or homeowner insurance applications
our financial results and are calculated as follows: for insurance policies that were issued during the
period, regardless of whether the customer was
• Loss ratio:the ratio of claims and claims expense
previously insured by another Allstate brand.
(loss adjustment expenses), to premiums earned.
Loss ratios include the impact of catastrophe • Average premium-gross written (“average
losses and prior year reserve reestimates. premium”): gross premiums written divided by
issued item count. Gross premiums written include
• Expense ratio: the ratio of amortization of DAC,
the impacts from discounts, surcharges and ceded
operating costs and expenses, amortization or
reinsurance premiums and exclude the impacts
impairment of purchased intangibles, restructuring
from mid-term premium adjustments and premium
and related charges and Shelter-in-Place Payback
refund accruals. Average premiums represent the
expense, less other revenue to premiums earned.
appropriate policy term for each line.
• Combined ratio: the sum of the loss ratio and the
• Renewal ratio: renewal policy item counts issued
expense ratio.
during the period, based on contract effective
We have also calculated the following impacts of dates, divided by the total policy item counts
specific items on the GAAP operating ratios because of issued generally 6 months prior for auto or 12
the volatility of these items between periods. The months prior for homeowners.
impacts are calculated by taking the specific items
• Implemented rate changes: represents the impact
noted below divided by Property-Liability premiums
in the locations (U.S. states, the District of
earned:
Columbia or Canadian provinces) where rate
• Effect of catastrophe losses on combined ratio: changes were implemented during the period as a
includes catastrophe losses and prior year reserve percentage of total brand prior year-end premiums
reestimates of catastrophe losses included in written.
claims and claims expense
Frequency and severity statistics, which are
• Effect of prior year reserve reestimates on influenced by driving patterns, inflation and other
combined ratio factors, are provided to describe the trends in loss
costs. Our reserving process incorporates changes in
• Effect of amortization of purchased intangibles on
loss patterns, operational statistics and changes in
combined ratio
claims reporting processes to determine our best
• Effect of restructuring and related charges on estimate of recorded reserves. We use the following
combined ratio statistics to evaluate losses:
• Effect of Shelter-in-Place Payback expense on • Gross claim frequency is calculated as annualized
combined and expense ratios notice counts, excluding counts associated with
catastrophe events, received in the period divided
• Effect of Run-off Property-Liability business on
by the average of PIF with the applicable coverage
combined ratio: includes claims and claims
during the period. Gross claim frequency includes
expense, restructuring and related charges and
all actual notice counts, regardless of their current
operating costs and expenses in the Run-off
status (open or closed) or their ultimate disposition
Property-Liability segment
(closed with a payment or closed without
payment).
• Report year incurred claim severityis calculated by
dividing the sum of recorded estimated incurred
losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses,
excluding catastrophes, by the reported notice
counts during that report year. Report year
incurred claim severity does not include incurred
146 2023 Annual ReportProperty-Liability
but not reported (“IBNR”) losses or benefits from same period in the prior year divided by the prior
subrogation and salvage. year gross claim frequency or paid claim severity.
• Paid claim severityis calculated by dividing the • Percent change in report year incurred claim
sum of paid losses and loss expenses by claims severity statistic is calculated as the amount of
closed with a payment during the period. increase or decrease in report year incurred claim
severity recorded in the current year divided by
• Percent change in frequency or paid claim severity
the current estimate of the prior report year
statistics are calculated as the amount of increase
incurred claim severity.
or decrease in gross claim frequency or paid claim
severity in the current period compared to the
Underwriting results
($ in millions, except ratios) 2023 2022 2021
Premiums written $ 50,347 $ 45,787 $ 41,358
Premiums earned $ 48,427 $ 43,909 $ 40,454
Other revenue 1,545 1,416 1,437
Claims and claims expense (40,453) (36,732) (28,876)
Shelter-in-Place Payback expense — — (29)
Amortization of DAC (6,070) (5,570) (5,313)
Other costs and expenses (5,255) (5,650) (5,622)
Restructuring and related charges (1) (143) (44) (145)
Amortization of purchased intangibles (235) (240) (241)
Underwriting (loss) income $ (2,184) $ (2,911) $ 1,665
Catastrophe losses
Catastrophe losses, excluding reserve reestimates $ 5,660 $ 3,094 $ 3,541
Catastrophe reserve reestimates (2) (24) 18 (202)
Total catastrophe losses $ 5,636 $ 3,112 $ 3,339
Non-catastrophe reserve reestimates (2) $ 574 $ 1,726 $ 326
Prior year reserve reestimates (2) 550 1,744 124
GAAP operating ratios
Loss ratio 83.5 83.6 71.4
Expense ratio(3) 21.0 23.0 24.5
Combined ratio 104.5 106.6 95.9
Effect of catastrophe losses on combined ratio 11.6 7.1 8.3
Effect of prior year reserve reestimates on combined ratio 1.2 3.9 0.3
Effect of catastrophe losses included in prior year reserve reestimates on
combined ratio — — (0.5)
Effect of restructuring and related charges on combined ratio (1) 0.3 0.1 0.4
Effect of amortization of purchased intangibles on combined ratio 0.5 0.5 0.6
Effect of Shelter-in-Place Payback expense on combined and expense ratios — — 0.1
Effect of Run-off Property-Liability business on combined ratio 0.2 0.3 0.3
(1) Restructuring and related charges in 2023primarily relate to implementing actions to streamline the organization and outsource
operations, and real estate costs related to facilities being vacated. See Note 14 of the consolidated financial statements for
additional details.
(2) Favorable reserve reestimates are shown in parentheses.
(3) Other revenue is deducted from operating costs and expenses in the expense ratio calculation.
147 www.allstate.comAllstate Protection
Allstate Protection
Allstate Protection Segment
Private passenger auto, homeowners, and other personal lines insurance products are offered to consumers
through agents, directly through contact centers and online. Our strategy is to offer products that allow customers to
interact with us when, where and how they want with affordable, simple and connected protection products. Additional
information on our strategy and outlook can be found in Strategy and Segment Information.
Underwriting results
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Premiums written $ 50,347 $ 45,787 $ 41,358
Premiums earned $ 48,427 $ 43,909 $ 40,454
Other revenue 1,545 1,416 1,437
Claims and claims expense (40,364) (36,607) (28,760)
Shelter-in-Place Payback expense — — (29)
Amortization of DAC (6,070) (5,570) (5,313)
Other costs and expenses (5,251) (5,646) (5,618)
Restructuring and related charges (142) (44) (145)
Amortization of purchased intangibles (235) (240) (241)
Underwriting (loss) income $ (2,090) $ (2,782) $ 1,785
Catastrophe losses $ 5,636 $ 3,112 $ 3,339
Underwriting loss improved to $2.09 billion in 2023 compared to $2.78 billion in 2022, primarily due to increased
premiums earned and lower unfavorable non-catastrophe reserve reestimates, partially offset by higher losses. We are
executing a comprehensive plan to improve auto insurance profitability, by raising rates, reducing operating expenses
and advertising, implementing underwriting restrictions in underperforming states and enhancing claims processes to
manage loss costs.
Change in underwriting results from 2022 to 2023
($ in millions)
$8,000
4,518 129
$4,000
$— 42 1,116
(2,349)
$(4,000) $(2,782) (2,566) (198) $(2,090)
$(8,000)
2022 Premiums Other Incurred Catastrophe Catastrophe Non- Expenses 2023
earned revenue losses, losses, reserve catastrophe
excluding excluding reestimates reserve
catastrophe reserve reestimates
losses reestimates
Change in underwriting results from 2021 to 2022
($ in millions)
$8,000 3,455
$1,785
$4,000
(21) 447
29
$—
$(4,000) (6,683) (220)
(1,391) (183) $(2,782)
$(8,000)
2021 Premiums Other Incurred Catastrophe Catastrophe Non- Shelter-in- Expenses 2022
earned revenue losses, losses, reserve catastrophe Place
excluding excluding reestimates reserve Payback
catastrophe reserve reestimates Expense
losses reestimates
148 2023 Annual ReportAllstate Protection
Underwriting income (loss) by brand and by line of business
For the years ended December 31,
Allstate Brand National General Allstate Protection
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021
Auto (1) $ (829) $ (2,846) $ 1,208 $ (280) $ (168) $ 54 $ (1,109) $ (3,014) $ 1,262
Homeowners (2) (624) 701 411 (179) (30) (98) (803) 671 313
Other personal lines (3) (37) (85) 216 (2) (3) 17 (39) (88) 233
Commercial lines (277) (478) (158) 12 14 — (265) (464) (158)
Other business lines (4) 106 95 115 9 10 6 115 105 121
Answer Financial — — — — — — 11 8 14
Total $ (1,661) $ (2,613) $ 1,792 $ (440) $ (177) $ (21) $ (2,090) $ (2,782) $ 1,785
(1) 2021 results include certain National General commercial lines insurance products.
(2) 2021 results include National General packaged policies, which include auto, and commercial lines insurance products.
(3) Include renters, condominium, landlord and other personal lines products.
(4)Primarily represents revenue and direct operating expenses of Ivantage, distribution of non-proprietary life and annuity products
and lender-placed products. Ivantage, a general agency for Allstate exclusive agents, provides agents a solution for their
customers when coverage through Allstate brand underwritten products is not available. In the first quarter of 2023, National
General lender-placed products results were reclassified to other business lines. Historical results have been updated to conform
with this presentation.
Premium measures and statistics include PIF, new issued applications, average premiums and renewal ratio to
analyze our premium trends. Premiums written is the amount of premiums charged for policies issued during a fiscal
period. Premiums are considered earned and are included in the financial results on a pro-rata basis over the policy
period. The portion of premiums written applicable to the unexpired term of the policies is recorded as unearned
premiums on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.
Premiums written by brand and line of business
For the years ended December 31,
Allstate Brand National General Allstate Protection
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021
Auto $ 27,894 $ 25,946 $ 24,102 $ 6,064 $ 4,720 $ 3,763 $ 33,958 $ 30,666 $ 27,865
Homeowners 11,018 9,936 8,717 1,566 1,273 1,365 12,584 11,209 10,082
Other personal lines 2,290 2,096 2,001 229 153 155 2,519 2,249 2,156
Commercial lines 473 917 848 247 207 — 720 1,124 848
Other business lines — — — 566 539 407 566 539 407
Total premiums written $ 41,675 $ 38,895 $ 35,668 $ 8,672 $ 6,892 $ 5,690 $ 50,347 $ 45,787 $ 41,358
Premiums earned by brand and line of business
For the years ended December 31,
Allstate Brand National General Allstate Protection
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021
Auto $ 27,384 $ 25,286 $ 24,088 $ 5,556 $ 4,429 $ 3,535 $ 32,940 $ 29,715 $ 27,623
Homeowners 10,333 9,249 8,272 1,406 1,169 1,280 11,739 10,418 9,552
Other personal lines 2,179 2,016 1,925 208 143 152 2,387 2,159 2,077
Commercial lines 593 919 827 218 204 — 811 1,123 827
Other business lines — — — 550 494 375 550 494 375
Total premiums earned $ 40,489 $ 37,470 $ 35,112 $ 7,938 $ 6,439 $ 5,342 $ 48,427 $ 43,909 $ 40,454
Reconciliation of premiums written to premiums earned
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Total premiums written $ 50,347 $ 45,787 $ 41,358
Increase in unearned premiums (2,004) (1,776) (1,143)
Other 84 (102) 239
Total premiums earned $ 48,427 $ 43,909 $ 40,454
149 www.allstate.comAllstate Protection
Unearned premium balance by line of business
As of December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022
Allstate brand:
Auto $ 7,569 $ 7,039
Homeowners 6,187 5,495
Other personal lines 1,264 1,151
Commercial lines 194 314
Total Allstate brand 15,214 13,999
National General:
Auto 2,547 2,017
Homeowners 799 651
Other personal lines 69 62
Commercial lines 155 129
Other business lines 317 294
Total National General 3,887 3,153
Allstate Protection unearned premiums $ 19,101 $ 17,152
Policies in force by brand and by line of business
Allstate brand National General Allstate Protection
PIF (thousands) 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021
Auto 20,326 21,658 21,972 4,957 4,376 3,944 25,283 26,034 25,916
Homeowners 6,652 6,622 6,525 686 638 634 7,338 7,260 7,159
Other personal lines 4,522 4,636 4,578 341 300 288 4,863 4,936 4,866
Commercial lines 152 204 210 132 107 105 284 311 315
Total 31,652 33,120 33,285 6,116 5,421 4,971 37,768 38,541 38,256
Auto insurance premiums writtenincreased10.7% • PIF decreased2.9% or 751 thousand to 25,283
or $3.29 billion in 2023 compared to 2022, primarily thousand as of December 31, 2023 compared to
due to the following factors: December 31, 2022
• Renewal ratio decreased1.6 points as of
• Increased average premiums driven by 2022 and
December 31, 2023 compared to December 31, 2022
2023 rate increases. In the year ended
December 31, 2023: • Decreased new issued applications driven by the
direct and exclusive agency channels, partially
– Rate increases of 17.9% were taken for Allstate
offset by growth in the independent agency channel
brand in 55 locations, resulting in total Allstate
brand insurance premium impact of 16.4% • The impact of the ongoing rate increases,
underwriting restrictions in markets with returns
– Rate increases of 18.8% were taken for National
below target levels and temporary reductions in
General brand in 48 locations, resulting in total
advertising have and may continue to have an
National General brand insurance premium
adverse effect on the renewal ratio, premiums and
impact of 12.8%
future PIF growth
• We expect to continue to pursue rate increases for
both Allstate and National General brands into 2024
to improve auto insurance profitability
Auto premium measures and statistics
2023 2022 2021 2023 vs. 2022 2022 vs. 2021
New issued applications (thousands)
Allstate Protection by brand
Allstate brand 2,915 3,644 3,616 (20.0) % 0.8 %
National General 3,000 2,677 2,057 12.1 % 30.1 %
Total new issued applications 5,915 6,321 5,673 (6.4) % 11.4 %
Allstate Protection by channel
Exclusive agency channel 2,294 2,401 2,387 (4.5) % 0.6 %
Direct channel 1,632 2,202 1,773 (25.9) % 24.2 %
Independent agency channel 1,989 1,718 1,513 15.8 % 13.5 %
Total new issued applications 5,915 6,321 5,673 (6.4) % 11.4 %
Allstate brand average premium $ 757 $ 659 $ 605 14.9 % 8.9 %
Allstate brand renewal ratio (%) 85.4 87.0 87.0 (1.6) —
150 2023 Annual ReportAllstate Protection
Homeowners insurance premiums written • Decreased new issued applications in the direct and
increased12.3% or $1.38 billion in 2023 compared to exclusive agency channels, partially offset by
2022, primarily due to the following factors: growth in the independent agency channel
• Policy growth is being reduced in states and lines of
• Higher Allstate brand average premiums from
business that are underperforming. We are no
implemented rate increases taken in 2022 and 2023
longer writing new homeowners business in
and inflation in insured home replacement costs,
California and Florida, and we are non-renewing
combined with policies in force growth
certain policies in Florida to reduce our exposure,
• In 2023 rate increases of 15.0% were taken for
which have and will continue to negatively impact
Allstate brand in 49 locations, resulting in total
premiums
Allstate brand insurance premium impact of 11.3%
• The impact of the ongoing rate increases,
• National General policy growth may be negatively
underwriting restrictions in markets with returns
impacted in future quarters as we improve
below target levels and temporary reductions in
underwriting margins to targeted levels in the
advertising have and may continue to have an
current books of business through underwriting and
adverse effect on the renewal ratio, premiums and
rate actions. In 2023 rate increases of 23.4% were
future PIF growth
taken for National General brand in 32 locations,
resulting in total National General brand insurance
premium impact of 11.0%
Homeowners premium measures and statistics
2023 2022 2021 2023 vs. 2022 2022 vs. 2021
New issued applications (thousands)
Allstate Protection by brand
Allstate brand 934 986 962 (5.3) % 2.5 %
National General 177 136 102 30.1 % 33.3 %
Total new issued applications 1,111 1,122 1,064 (1.0) % 5.5 %
Allstate Protection by channel
Exclusive agency channel 800 826 840 (3.1) % (1.7) %
Direct channel 79 94 84 (16.0) % 11.9 %
Independent agency channel 232 202 140 14.9 % 44.3 %
Total new issued applications 1,111 1,122 1,064 (1.0) % 5.5 %
Allstate brand average premium $ 1,812 $ 1,614 $ 1,426 12.3 % 13.2 %
Allstate brand renewal ratio (%) 86.7 86.8 87.1 (0.1) (0.3)
Other personal linespremiums writtenincreased The Allstate brand commercial insurance strategy
12.0% or $270 million in 2023 compared to 2022, is being advanced through an equity investment and
primarily due to increases in landlords, condominiums commercial partnership with NEXT Insurance, a high-
and personal umbrella for Allstate brand. We are no growth, digital platform for small business insurance
longer writing condominium new business in California which will expand the availability of our commercial
and Florida and we are non-renewing certain policies in lines offerings via NEXT product portfolio.
Florida, which will continue to negatively impact
Other business lines premiums written increased
premiums.
5.0% or $27 million in 2023 compared to 2022.
Commercial linespremiums writtendecreased
GAAP operating ratiosinclude loss ratio, expense
35.9% or $404 million in 2023 compared to 2022, due
ratio and combined ratio to analyze our profitability
to profitability actions taken to no longer offer
trends. Frequency and severity statistics are used to
coverage to transportation network companies unless
describe the trends in loss costs.
the contracts utilize telematics-based pricing and the
Allstate brand exiting traditional commercial insurance
in five states, which will continue to negatively impact
premiums.
151 www.allstate.comAllstate Protection
Combined ratios by line of business
For the years ended December 31,
Loss ratio Expense ratio(1) Combined ratio
2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021
Auto 82.8 87.2 70.5 20.6 22.9 24.9 103.4 110.1 95.4
Impact of Shelter-in-Place Payback expense — — 0.1 — — 0.1
Homeowners 85.4 71.1 73.5 21.4 22.5 23.2 106.8 93.6 96.7
Other personal lines 82.0 79.7 62.9 19.6 24.4 25.9 101.6 104.1 88.8
Commercial lines 105.8 120.7 97.5 26.9 20.6 21.6 132.7 141.3 119.1
Other business lines 48.4 39.5 38.4 30.7 39.2 29.3 79.1 78.7 67.7
Total 83.3 83.3 71.1 21.0 23.0 24.5 104.3 106.3 95.6
Impact of amortization of purchased intangibles 0.5 0.5 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.6
Impact of Shelter-in-Place Payback expense — — 0.1 — — 0.1
Impact of restructuring and related charges 0.3 0.1 0.4 0.3 0.1 0.4
(1) Other revenue is deducted from operating costs and expenses in the expense ratio calculation.
Loss ratios by line of business
For the years ended December 31,
Effect of catastrophe
losses included in
Effect of catastrophe Effect of prior year prior year reserve
Loss ratio losses reserve reestimates reestimates
2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021
Auto 82.8 87.2 70.5 2.1 1.7 1.7 0.7 4.0 0.5 (0.2) (0.2) (0.1)
Homeowners 85.4 71.1 73.5 38.6 21.6 27.2 0.8 1.9 (1.4) 0.3 0.7 (1.7)
Other personal lines 82.0 79.7 62.9 14.6 12.3 11.0 0.8 (1.5) (5.1) (0.8) 0.1 (0.5)
Commercial lines 105.8 120.7 97.5 3.7 2.5 2.9 10.4 24.2 14.4 1.0 (0.1) 0.4
Other business lines 48.4 39.5 38.4 7.5 9.1 5.3 2.2 (1.2) (4.8) — 0.8 0.3
Total 83.3 83.3 71.1 11.6 7.1 8.3 1.0 3.6 — — — (0.5)
Auto underwriting results
For the periods ended
2023 2022 2021
($ in millions, except ratios) Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1
Underwriting income (loss) $ 93 $ (178) $ (678) $ (346) $ (974) $ (1,315) $ (578) $ (147) $ (300) $ (159) $ 394 $ 1,327
Loss ratio 78.5 81.4 87.9 83.4 90.6 95.3 84.9 77.6 78.9 76.9 68.7 57.2
Effect of prior year non-
catastrophe reserve reestimates 1.7 0.3 1.4 (0.1) 2.3 8.5 3.8 2.1 2.1 1.1 (0.4) (0.2)
Frequency and severity are influenced by: The quarterly auto loss ratio has been more
variable due to these and additional factors discussed
• Supply chain disruptions and labor shortages
below.
• Mix of repairable losses and total losses
Auto loss ratiodecreased4.4 points in 2023
• Value of total losses due to changes in used car
compared to 2022 driven by increased earned
prices
premium compared to the prior year. Estimated report
• Changes in medical inflation and consumption year 2023 incurred claim severity for Allstate brand,
• Number of claims with attorney representation excluding Esurance and Canada, had a weighted
average increase of between 8% to 9% compared to
• Labor and part costs
report year 2022 for major coverages due to higher
• Changes in commuting activity
part costs and labor rates for repairable vehicles, a
• Driving behavior (e.g., speed, time of day) impacting higher mix of total losses, higher costs for claims with
severity and mix of claim types attorney representation, higher medical consumption
• Organizational and process changes impacting and inflation. Gross claim frequency increased relative
claim opening and closing practices and shifts in to the prior year. We are enhancing our claims
timing, if any, can impact comparisons to prior practices to manage loss costs by increasing resources
periods and expanding re-inspections, accelerating resolution
of bodily injury claims, and negotiating improved
vendor services and parts agreements.
152 2023 Annual ReportAllstate Protection
Homeowners loss ratioincreased14.3 points in Other business lines loss ratioincreased8.9 points
2023 compared to 2022, primarily due to higher in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily due to higher non-
catastrophe losses and severity, partially offset by catastrophe losses and unfavorable prior year reserve
increased premiums earned. reestimates.
Catastrophe losses increased81.1% or $2.52 billion
Allstate brand homeowners frequency and severity
statistics (excluding catastrophe losses) in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily related to an
increased number of wind/hail events and larger losses
(% change year-over-year)
per event.
For the year ended December 31, 2023
Gross claim frequency (4.2) % Reinsurance recoveries in 2021 related to the
Paid claim severity 11.8 Nationwide Aggregate Reinsurance Program for
aggregate catastrophe losses occurring between April
Gross claim frequency decreased in 2023 1, 2020 and December 31, 2020, which primarily
compared to 2022 primarily due to fire and water impacted homeowners prior year reserve reestimates.
perils. Paid claim severity increased in 2023 compared
We define a “catastrophe” as an event that
to 2022 due to inflationary loss cost pressure driven by
produces pre-tax losses before reinsurance in excess
increases in labor and materials costs. Homeowner
of $1 million and involves multiple first party
paid claim severity can be impacted by both the mix of
policyholders, or a winter weather event that produces
perils and the magnitude of specific losses paid during
a number of claims in excess of a preset, per-event
the period.
threshold of average claims in a specific area, occurring
Other personal lines loss ratioincreased2.3 points within a certain amount of time following the event.
in 2023 compared to 2022, primarily due to higher Catastrophes are caused by various natural events
catastrophe losses and increased severity, partially including high winds, winter storms and freezes,
offset by increased premiums earned. tornadoes, hailstorms, wildfires, tropical storms,
tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes and volcanoes.
Commercial lines loss ratiodecreased14.9 points
in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily due to the result of We are also exposed to man-made catastrophic
profitability actions taken and lower unfavorable events, such as certain types of terrorism, civil unrest,
reserve reestimates, partially offset by continued wildfires or industrial accidents. The nature and level of
elevated frequency and severity. catastrophes in any period cannot be reliably
predicted.
Catastrophe losses by the type of event
For the years ended December 31,
Number Number Number
($ in millions) of events 2023 of events 2022 of events 2021
Hurricanes/tropical storms 3 $ 66 2 $ 399 6 $ 742
Tornadoes 4 189 4 192 3 107
Wind/hail 136 5,065 106 1,936 85 1,878
Wildfires 4 335 9 52 5 269
Freeze/other events 2 5 3 515 2 611
Prior year reserve reestimates (24) 28 35
Prior year aggregate reinsurance recoveries — (10) (237)
Current year aggregate reinsurance recoveries — — (66)
Total catastrophe losses (1) 149 $ 5,636 124 $ 3,112 101 $ 3,339
(1) 2021 includes approximately $250 million of reinstatement premiums for the year ended December 31, 2021, related to the
Nationwide Catastrophe Reinsurance Program, primarily due to Hurricane Ida.
Catastrophe management
Historical catastrophe experience For the last ten laws and regulations and we may not be able to
years, the average annual impact of catastrophes on maintain our current level of reinsurance or purchase
our loss ratio was 8.3 points, but it has varied from 5.7 new reinsurance protection in amounts we consider
points to 11.6 points. The average annual impact of sufficient at acceptable prices. In addition, in various
catastrophes on the homeowners loss ratio for the last states we are required to participate in assigned risk
ten years was 27.1 points. Over time, we have limited plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting
our aggregate insurance exposure to catastrophe associations that provide insurance coverage to
losses in certain regions of the country that are subject individuals or entities that otherwise are unable to
to high levels of natural catastrophes by our purchase such coverage from private insurers. Because
participation in various state facilities. For further of our participation in these and other state facilities
discussion of these facilities, see Note 15 of the such as wind pools, we may be exposed to losses that
consolidated financial statements. However, the surpass the capitalization of these facilities and to
impact of these actions may be diminished by the assessments from these facilities.
growth in insured values, the effect of state insurance
153 www.allstate.comAllstate Protection
We have continued to take actions to maintain an We have addressed our risk of hurricane loss by,
appropriate level of exposure to catastrophic events among other actions, purchasing reinsurance for
while continuing to meet the needs of our customers, specific states and on a countrywide basis for our
including the following: personal lines property insurance in areas most
exposed to hurricanes, limiting personal homeowners,
• Continuing to limit or not offer new homeowners,
landlord package policy and manufactured home new
manufactured home and landlord package policy
business writings in coastal areas in southern and
business in certain coastal geographies.
eastern states, implementing tropical cyclone
Additionally, we:
deductibles where appropriate, and not offering
– Wrote a limited number of homeowners continuing coverage on certain policies in coastal
policies in select areas of California from 2016 counties in certain states. We continue to seek
to 2022, but are no longer writing new appropriate returns for the risks we write. This may
homeowners and condominium business in require further actions, similar to those already taken,
the state of California. We may take further in geographies where we are not getting appropriate
action to reduce our exposure. returns. However, we may maintain or opportunistically
– Reduced our exposure to high risk areas, increase our presence in areas where adequate risk
including California and Florida. Since adjusted returns can be achieved.
December 31, 2022, PIF has declined by an
Earthquakes We do not offer earthquake coverage
average of approximately 7% in those two
in most states. We retain approximately 25,000 PIF
states.
with earthquake coverage, with the largest number of
– Write homeowners coverage, excluding in policies located in Kentucky, due to regulatory and
Florida, through our excess and surplus lines other reasons. We purchase reinsurance in Kentucky
carrier, North Light Specialty Insurance and enter into arrangements in many states to make
Company (“North Light”), which includes earthquake coverage available through our brokerage
earthquake coverage (other than fire platform.
following earthquakes) that is currently ceded
via quota share reinsurance. We continue to have exposure to earthquake risk
on certain policies that do not specifically exclude
• Increased capacity in our brokerage platform for
coverage for earthquake losses, including our auto
customers not offered an Allstate policy. As of
policies, and to fires following earthquakes. Allstate
December 31, 2023, Ivantage had $2.19 billion non-
homeowner policyholders in California are offered
proprietary premiums under management.
coverage for damage caused by an earthquake
• Ceded wind exposure related to insured property through the California Earthquake Authority (“CEA”), a
located in wind pool eligible areas in certain states. privately-financed, publicly-managed state agency
• Generally require higher deductibles for tropical created to provide insurance coverage for earthquake
cyclone than all peril deductibles and are in place damage. Allstate is subject to assessments from the
for a large portion of coastal insured properties. CEA under certain circumstances as explained in
Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements. While
• Include coverage for flood-related losses for auto
North Light writes property policies in California, which
comprehensive damage coverage since we have
can include earthquake coverage, this coverage is
additional catastrophe exposure, beyond the
100% ceded via quota share reinsurance.
property lines, for auto customers who have
purchased comprehensive damage coverage. Fires following earthquakes Under a standard
• Offer a homeowners policy in 43 states. Allstate homeowners policy we cover fire losses, including
House and Home® provides options of coverage those caused by an earthquake. Actions taken related
for roof damage, including graduated coverage to our risk of loss from fires following earthquakes
and pricing based on roof type and age. In 2023, include restrictive underwriting guidelines in California
premiums written totaled $6.84 billion or 54.3% of for new business writings, purchasing reinsurance for
homeowners premiums written compared to $5.60 Kentucky personal lines property risks, and purchasing
billion or 49.9% in 2022. nationwide occurrence reinsurance, excluding Florida.
Hurricanes We consider the greatest areas of Wildfires Actions taken related to managing our
potential catastrophe losses due to hurricanes to be risk of loss from wildfires include purchasing
major metropolitan centers in counties along the nationwide occurrence reinsurance, new and renewal
eastern and gulf coasts of the United States. The inspection programs to identify and remediate wildfire
average premium on a property policy near these risk as well as leveraging contemporary underwriting
coasts is generally greater than in other areas. tools in select areas. While these programs are
However, average premiums are often not considered designed to mitigate risk, the exposure to wildfires still
commensurate with the inherent risk of loss. In exists. We continue to manage ourexposure and seek
addition, as explained in Note 15 of the consolidated appropriate returns for the risks we write.
financial statements, in various states Allstate is
To manage the exposure, we may implement
subject to assessments from assigned risk plans,
further actions, similar to those already taken, in
reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting
geographies where we are not achieving appropriate
associations providing insurance for wind related
returns. However, we may maintain or opportunistically
property losses.
154 2023 Annual ReportAllstate Protection
increase our presence in areas where adequate risk costs. A description of our current catastrophe
adjusted returns can be achieved. reinsurance program appears in Note 11 of the
consolidated financial statements.
Catastrophe reinsurance The total cost of our
property catastrophe reinsurance programs, excluding Expense ratio decreased2.0 points in 2023
reinstatement premiums, during 2023 was $1.02 billion compared to 2022, primarily due to higher earned
compared to $788 million during 2022. Catastrophe premium growth relative to fixed costs and lower
placement premiums are a reduction of premium with advertising costs, partially offset by higher
approximately 74% related to homeowners. The restructuring costs.
increases were driven by higher Nationwide program
Impact of specific costs and expenses on the expense ratio
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions, except ratios) 2023 2022 2021 2023 vs 2022 2022 vs 2021
Amortization of DAC $ 6,070 $ 5,570 $ 5,313 $ 500 $ 257
Advertising expense 638 934 1,249 (296) (315)
Amortization of purchased intangibles 235 240 241 (5) (1)
Other costs and expenses, net of other revenue 3,068 3,296 2,952 (228) 344
Restructuring and related charges 142 44 145 98 (101)
Shelter-in-Place Payback expense — — 29 — (29)
Allstate Special Payment plan bad debt expense — — (20) — 20
Total underwriting expenses $ 10,153 $ 10,084 $ 9,909 $ 69 $ 175
Premiums earned $ 48,427 $ 43,909 $ 40,454 $ 4,518 $ 3,455
Expense ratio
Amortization of DAC 12.5 12.7 13.1 (0.2) (0.4)
Advertising expense 1.3 2.2 3.1 (0.9) (0.9)
Other costs and expenses 6.4 7.5 7.2 (1.1) 0.3
Subtotal 20.2 22.4 23.4 (2.2) (1.0)
Amortization of purchased intangibles 0.5 0.5 0.6 — (0.1)
Restructuring and related charges 0.3 0.1 0.4 0.2 (0.3)
Shelter-in-Place Payback expense — — 0.1 — (0.1)
Allstate Special Payment plan bad debt expense — — — — —
Total expense ratio 21.0 23.0 24.5 (2.0) (1.5)
Deferred acquisition costs We establish a DAC asset for costs that are related directly to the acquisition of new
or renewal insurance policies, principally agent remuneration and premium taxes. DAC is amortized to income over the
period in which premiums are earned.
DAC balance as of December 31 by product type
($ in millions) 2023 2022
Auto $ 1,207 $ 1,089
Homeowners 890 788
Other personal lines 177 164
Commercial lines 42 54
Other business lines 63 51
Total DAC $ 2,379 $ 2,146
155 www.allstate.comRun-off Property-Liability
Run-off Property-Liability
Run-off Property-Liability Segment
The Run-off Property-Liability segment includes results from property and casualty insurance coverage that
primarily relates to policies written during the 1960s through the mid-1980s.Our exposure to asbestos, environmental
and other run-off lines claims arises principally from direct excess commercial insurance, assumed reinsurance
coverage, direct primary commercial insurance and other businesses in run-off.We may pursue settlement agreements
including policy buybacks on direct excess commercial business when appropriate to improve the certainty of the
liabilities. Settlement agreements are negotiated contracts between Allstate and third parties that generally set forth
the rights and obligations of the parties, including terms of payment for claims.Additional information on our strategy
and outlook can be found in Strategy and Segment Information.
Underwriting results
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Claims and claims expense
Asbestos claims $ (44) $ (34) $ (63)
Environmental claims (18) (56) (40)
Other run-off lines (27) (35) (13)
Total claims and claims expense (89) (125) (116)
Operating costs and expenses (5) (4) (4)
Underwriting loss $ (94) $ (129) $ (120)
Underwriting losses in 2023 and 2022 primarily related to our annual reserve review using established industry and
actuarial best practices. The annual review resulted in unfavorable reserve reestimates totaling $80 million and
$118 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. The reserve reestimates are included as part of claims and claims expense.
The reserve reestimates in 2023 primarily related to new reported information and defense costs for asbestos and
other run-off exposures and higher than expected environmental reported losses. The reserve reestimates in 2022
primarily related to new reported information and defense costs for asbestos and higher than expected reported
losses for environmental and other run-off exposures.
We believe that our reserves are appropriately established based on available facts, technology, laws, regulations,
and assessments of other pertinent factors and characteristics of exposure (e.g., claim activity, potential liability,
jurisdiction, products versus non-products exposure) presented by individual policyholders, assuming no change in the
legal, legislative or economic environment. However, as we progress with the resolution of disputed claims in the
courts and arbitrations and with negotiations and settlements, our reported losses may be more variable.
Reserves for asbestos, environmental and other run-off claims before and after the effects of reinsurance
($ in millions) December 31, 2023 December 31, 2022
Asbestos claims
Gross reserves $ 1,166 $ 1,190
Reinsurance (362) (379)
Net reserves 804 811
Environmental claims
Gross reserves 331 328
Reinsurance (64) (61)
Net reserves 267 267
Other run-off claims
Gross reserves 445 437
Reinsurance (72) (64)
Net reserves 373 373
Total
Gross reserves 1,942 1,955
Reinsurance (498) (504)
Net reserves $ 1,444 $ 1,451
156 2023 Annual ReportRun-off Property-Liability
Reserves by type of exposure before and after the effects of reinsurance
($ in millions) December 31, 2023 December 31, 2022
Direct excess commercial insurance
Gross reserves $ 1,114 $ 1,106
Reinsurance (382) (385)
Net reserves 732 721
Assumed reinsurance coverage
Gross reserves 603 618
Reinsurance (54) (56)
Net reserves 549 562
Direct primary commercial insurance
Gross reserves 140 148
Reinsurance (61) (62)
Net reserves 79 86
Other run-off business
Gross reserves 1 1
Reinsurance — —
Net reserves 1 1
Unallocated loss adjustment expenses
Gross reserves 84 82
Reinsurance (1) (1)
Net reserves 83 81
Total
Gross reserves 1,942 1,955
Reinsurance (498) (504)
Net reserves $ 1,444 $ 1,451
Percentage of gross and ceded reserves by case and IBNR
December 31, 2023 December 31, 2022
Case IBNR Case IBNR
Direct excess commercial insurance
Gross reserves (1) 57 % 43 % 58 % 42 %
Ceded (2) 63 37 63 37
Assumed reinsurance coverage
Gross reserves 32 68 31 69
Ceded 43 57 33 67
Direct primary commercial insurance
Gross reserves 59 41 57 43
Ceded 83 17 81 19
(1) Approximately 68% and 64% of gross case reserves as of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively, are subject to
settlement agreements.
(2) Approximately 72% and 70% of ceded case reserves as of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively, are subject to
settlement agreements.
157 www.allstate.comRun-off Property-Liability
Gross payments from case reserves by type of exposure
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022
Direct excess commercial insurance
Gross (1) $ 72 $ 82
Ceded (2) (27) (35)
Assumed reinsurance coverage
Gross 45 35
Ceded (8) (3)
Direct primary commercial insurance
Gross 7 7
Ceded — (1)
(1) In 2023 and 2022, 85% and 88% of payments related to settlement agreements, respectively.
(2) In 2023 and 2022, 83% and 94% of payments related to settlement agreements, respectively.
Total net reserves as of December 31, 2023, Reinsurance collections were $35 million and $37
included $762 million or 53% of estimated IBNR million for 2023 and 2022, respectively. The allowance
reserves compared to $765 million or 53% of estimated for uncollectible reinsurance recoverables was $59
IBNR reserves as of December 31, 2022. million and $58 million as of December 31, 2023 and
2022, respectively. The allowance represents 10.3% and
Total gross payments were $124 million and $125
10.0% of the related reinsurance recoverable balances
million for 2023 and 2022, respectively. Payments
as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
primarily related to settlement agreements reached
with several insureds on large claims, mainly asbestos
related losses, where the scope of coverages has been
agreed upon. The claims associated with these
settlement agreements are expected to be
substantially paid out over the next several years as
qualified claims are submitted by these insureds.
158 2023 Annual ReportProtection Services
Protection Services
Protection Services Segment
Protection Services comprise Allstate Protection Plans, Allstate Dealer Services, Allstate Roadside, Arity and Allstate
Identity Protection. In 2023, Protection Services represented 78.5% of total PIF and 5.0% of premiums written. We offer
consumer product protection plans, protection and insurance products (including vehicle service contracts, guaranteed
asset protection, road hazard tire and wheel and paintless dent repair protection), roadside assistance, device and
mobile data collection services and analytic solutions using automotive telematics information, identity theft
protection and remediation services. Additional information on our strategy and outlook can be found in Strategy and
Segment Information.
Summarized financial information
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Premiums written $ 2,663 $ 2,699 $ 2,642
Revenues
Premiums $ 2,243 $ 1,995 $ 1,764
Other revenue 319 347 354
Intersegment insurance premiums and service fees (1) 138 149 175
Net investment income 73 48 43
Costs and expenses
Claims and claims expense (632) (532) (458)
Amortization of DAC (1,058) (928) (795)
Operating costs and expenses (889) (874) (837)
Restructuring and related charges (6) (2) (14)
Income tax expense on operations (83) (35) (52)
Less: noncontrolling interest (1) (1) 1
Adjusted net income $ 106 $ 169 $ 179
Allstate Protection Plans $ 117 $ 150 $ 142
Allstate Dealer Services (15) 35 34
Allstate Roadside 24 7 7
Arity (18) (11) 3
Allstate Identity Protection (2) (12) (7)
Adjusted net income $ 106 $ 169 $ 179
Allstate Protection Plans 145,292 138,726 141,073
Allstate Dealer Services 3,776 3,865 3,956
Allstate Roadside 553 531 525
Allstate Identity Protection 2,884 3,112 2,802
Policies in force as of December 31 (in thousands) 152,505 146,234 148,356
(1) Primarily related to Arity and Allstate Roadside and are eliminated in our consolidated financial statements.
Adjusted net income decreased 37.3% or $63 Allstate Roadside, partially offset by international
million in 2023 compared to 2022, due to an increase in growth at Allstate Protection Plans.
state income taxes and deferred tax liabilities for
PIF increased 4.3% or 6 million in 2023 compared
Allstate Dealer Services, higher appliance and furniture
to 2022 due to an increase at Allstate Protection Plans.
claim severity at Allstate Protection Plans and lower
third-party lead sales at Arity, partially offset by Other revenuedecreased 8.1% or $28 million in
improved margins at Allstate Roadside and lower 2023 compared to 2022, primarily due to reductions in
expenses at Allstate Identity Protection. third-party lead sales at Arity.
Premiums written decreased 1.3% or $36 million in Intersegment premiums and service fees
2023 compared to 2022, primarily due to a decrease at decreased 7.4% to $138 million in 2023 compared to
Allstate Dealer Services and lower rescue volumes at 2022, driven by decreased device sales for the
159 www.allstate.comProtection Services
Drivewise® offering at Arity due to a shift from devices Operating costs and expenses increased1.7% or
to a lower cost mobile phone program. $15 million in 2023 compared to 2022, primarily due to
growth at Allstate Protection Plans, partially offset by
Claims and claims expenseincreased18.8% or $100
lower expenses at Arity.
million in 2023 compared to 2022, primarily driven by
higher levels of claims at Allstate Protection Plans Restructuring and related charges increased$4
driven by growth in the business and higher severity at million in 2023compared to 2022, primarily due to
both Allstate Protection Plans and Allstate Dealer restructuring charges at Allstate Roadside.
Services, partially offset by lower frequency at Allstate
Roadside.
Amortization of DACincreased14.0% or $130
million in 2023 compared to 2022, driven by revenue
growth at both Allstate Protection Plans and Allstate
Dealer Services.
160 2023 Annual ReportProperty and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves
Property and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves
Underwriting results are significantly influenced by The facts and circumstances leading to
estimates of claims and claims expense reserves. For a reestimates of reserves relate to changes in claim
description of our reserve process, see Note 9 of the activity and revisions to the development factors used
consolidated financial statements. Further, for a to predict how losses are likely to develop from the end
description of our reserving policies and the potential of a reporting period until all claims have been paid.
variability in our reserve estimates, see the Application Reestimates occur when actual losses differ from those
of Critical Accounting Estimates section of the MD&A. predicted by the estimated development factors used
These reserves are an estimate of amounts necessary in prior reserve estimates.
to settle all outstanding claims, including IBNR claims,
We believe the net loss reserves exposures are
as of the reporting date.
appropriately established based on available facts,
laws and regulations.
Total reserves, net of recoverables (“net reserves”), as of December 31
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Allstate Protection $ 29,969 $ 26,876 $ 22,124
Run-off Property-Liability 1,444 1,451 1,421
Total Property-Liability 31,413 28,327 23,545
Protection Services 49 38 36
Total net reserves $ 31,462 $ 28,365 $ 23,581
Reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense $ 39,858 $ 37,541 $ 33,060
Less: reinsurance and indemnification recoverables (1) 8,396 9,176 9,479
Total net reserves $ 31,462 $ 28,365 $ 23,581
(1) Includes $6.36 billion, $6.66 billion and $6.64 billion of unpaid indemnification recoverables related to the Michigan Catastrophic
Claims Association (“MCCA”) as of December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
Impact of reserve reestimates by brand on combined ratio and net income applicable to common shareholders(1) (2)
2023 2022 2021
Effect on Effect on Effect on
Reserve combined Reserve combined Reserve combined
($ in millions, except ratios) reestimates ratio reestimates ratio reestimates ratio
Allstate Protection $ 461 0.9 $ 1,619 3.6 $ 8 —
Run-off Property-Liability 89 0.2 125 0.3 116 0.3
Total Property-Liability 550 1.1 1,744 3.9 124 0.3
Protection Services (1) — (3) — (2) —
Total $ 549 $ 1,741 $ 122
Reserve reestimates, after-tax $ 434 $ 1,375 $ 96
Consolidated net (loss) income applicable
to common shareholders $ (316) $ (1,394) $ 1,500
Reserve reestimates as a % impact on
consolidated net (loss) income applicable to
common shareholders NM (98.6) % (6.4) %
Property-Liability prior year reserve
reestimates included in catastrophe losses $ (24) $ 18 $ (202)
(1) Favorable reserve reestimates are shown in parentheses.
(2) Ratios are calculated using property and casualty premiums earned.
NM = not meaningful
161 www.allstate.comProperty and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves
The following tables reflect the accident years to which the reestimates shown above are applicable. Favorable
reserve reestimates are shown in parentheses.
Prior year reserve reestimates
($ in millions)
2023 2018 & prior 2019 2020 2021 2022 Total
Allstate Protection $ 230 $ 130 $ 84 $ 401 $ (384) $ 461
Run-off Property-Liability 89 — — — — 89
Total Property-Liability 319 130 84 401 (384) 550
Protection Services — — — — (1) (1)
Total $ 319 $ 130 $ 84 $ 401 $ (385) $ 549
2022 2017 & prior 2018 2019 2020 2021 Total
Allstate Protection $ 27 $ 161 $ 294 $ 345 $ 792 $ 1,619
Run-off Property-Liability 125 — — — — 125
Total Property-Liability 152 161 294 345 792 1,744
Protection Services — — — — (3) (3)
Total $ 152 $ 161 $ 294 $ 345 $ 789 $ 1,741
2021 2016 & prior 2017 2018 2019 2020 Total
Allstate Protection $ (130) $ 100 $ (67) $ 231 $ (126) $ 8
Run-off Property-Liability 116 — — — — 116
Total Property-Liability (14) 100 (67) 231 (126) 124
Protection Services — — — — (2) (2)
Total $ (14) $ 100 $ (67) $ 231 $ (128) $ 122
Allstate Protection
The tables below show Allstate Protection net reserves representing the estimated cost of outstanding claims as
they were recorded at the beginning of years 2023, 2022, and 2021, and the effect of reestimates in each year.
Net reserves by line
January 1 reserves
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Auto (1) $ 19,365 $ 16,078 $ 14,164
Homeowners (1) 3,520 2,731 2,315
Other personal lines 1,653 1,844 1,463
Commercial lines and other (2) 2,338 1,471 1,194
Total Allstate Protection $ 26,876 $ 22,124 $ 19,136
(1) 2022 includes a $944 million reclassification of reserves from homeowners to auto.
(2) 2023 and 2022 include the unamortized fair value adjustment related to the acquisition of National General.
Impact of reserve reestimates by line on combined ratio and underwriting income
2023 2022 2021
Effect on Effect on Effect on
Reserve combined Reserve combined Reserve combined
($ in millions, except ratios) reestimates ratio reestimates ratio reestimates ratio
Auto $ 244 0.5 $ 1,185 2.7 $ 149 0.4
Homeowners 102 0.2 200 0.4 (135) (0.3)
Other personal lines 19 0.1 (32) (0.1) (107) (0.3)
Commercial lines 84 0.2 272 0.6 119 0.3
Other business lines 12 — (6) — (18) (0.1)
Total Allstate Protection $ 461 1.0 $ 1,619 3.6 $ 8 —
Underwriting (loss) income $ (2,090) $ (2,782) $ 1,785
Reserve reestimates as a % impact
on underwriting (loss) income -
favorable (unfavorable) (22.1) % (58.2) % (0.4) %
Unfavorable reserve reestimates in 2023 were Unfavorable reserve reestimates for personal auto
primarily due to National General personal auto lines, in 2022 were primarily from bodily injury and physical
homeowners and commercial lines. damage coverages. Increases in injury coverages
reflected recent data and updated assumptions
related to severity of third-party bodily injury claims,
162 2023 Annual ReportProperty and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves
increased claims with attorney representation, Run-off Property-Liability
litigation costs, increased medical treatment utilization
We conduct an annual review in the third quarter
and higher medical inflation. Increases in physical
of each year to evaluate and establish asbestos,
damage reflected the ongoing inflationary factors and
environmental and other run-off reserves. Reserves are
supply chain shortages impacting used vehicle and
recorded in the reporting period in which they are
parts prices, labor rates and length of claim resolution.
determined. Using established industry and actuarial
Delays in the receipt of claims, including third-party
best practices and assuming no change in the
carrier claims also contributed to the adverse
regulatory or economic environment, this detailed and
development of claims reported in prior years.
comprehensive methodology determines reserves
Unfavorable reserve reestimates for commercial were
based on assessments of the characteristics of
primarily from auto injury coverages for both shared
exposure (e.g. claim activity, potential liability,
economy and traditional segments with a large portion
jurisdiction, products versus non-products exposure)
of the traditional segment increase related to states
presented by policyholders.
where the Company will no longer be selling new
business.
Run-off Property-Liability net reserve reestimates
2023 2022 2021
January 1 Reserve January 1 Reserve January 1 Reserve
($ in millions) reserves reestimates reserves reestimates reserves reestimates
Asbestos claims $ 811 $ 44 $ 828 $ 34 $ 827 $ 63
Environmental claims 267 18 226 56 206 40
Other run-off lines 373 27 367 35 375 13
Total $ 1,451 $ 89 $ 1,421 $ 125 $ 1,408 $ 116
Underwriting loss $ (94) $ (129) $ (120)
Reserve reestimates in 2023 primarily related to Reserve reestimates in 2022 primarily related to
new reported information and defense costs for new reported information and defense costs for
asbestos and other run-off exposures and higher than asbestos and higher than expected reported losses for
expected environmental reported losses. environmental and other run-off exposures.
Reserves and claim activity before (Gross) and after (Net) the effects of reinsurance
2023 2022 2021
($ in millions, except ratios) Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net
Asbestos claims
Beginning reserves $ 1,190 $ 811 $ 1,210 $ 828 $ 1,204 $ 827
Incurred claims and claims expense 56 44 59 34 100 63
Claims and claims expense paid (80) (51) (79) (51) (94) (62)
Ending reserves $ 1,166 $ 804 $ 1,190 $ 811 $ 1,210 $ 828
Annual survival ratio 14.6 15.8 15.1 15.9 12.9 13.4
3-year survival ratio 13.8 14.8 13.1 14.0 11.1 12.0
Environmental claims
Beginning reserves $ 328 $ 267 $ 273 $ 226 $ 249 $ 206
Incurred claims and claims expense 23 18 79 56 50 40
Claims and claims expense paid (20) (18) (24) (15) (26) (20)
Ending reserves $ 331 $ 267 $ 328 $ 267 $ 273 $ 226
Annual survival ratio 16.6 14.8 13.7 17.8 10.5 11.3
3-year survival ratio 14.4 15.1 14.5 15.4 10.6 10.6
Combined environmental and asbestos claims
Annual survival ratio 15.0 15.5 14.7 16.3 12.4 12.9
3-year survival ratio 13.9 14.8 13.3 14.3 11.0 11.7
Percentage of IBNR in ending reserves 55.7 % 0 55.9 % 0 54.8 %
163 www.allstate.comProperty and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves
The survival ratio is calculated by taking our ending reserves divided by payments made during the year. This is a
commonly used but simplistic and imprecise approach to measuring the adequacy of asbestos and environmental
reserve levels. Many factors, such as mix of business, level of coverage provided and settlement procedures have
significant impacts on the amount of environmental and asbestos claims and claims expense reserves, claim payments
and the resultant ratio. As payments result in corresponding reserve reductions, survival ratios can be expected to vary
over time. The asbestos and environmental net 3-year survival ratio in 2023 increased from 2022 due to lower average
payments.
Net asbestos reserves by type of exposure and total reserve additions
December 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
Net % of Net % of Net % of
($ in millions) reserves reserves reserves reserves reserves reserves
Direct:
Primary $ 9 1 % $ 9 1 % $ 8 1 %
Excess 263 33 257 32 275 33
Total direct 272 34 266 33 283 34
Assumed reinsurance 91 11 97 12 104 13
IBNR 441 55 448 55 441 53
Total net reserves $ 804 100 % $ 811 100 % $ 828 100 %
Total reserve additions $ 44 $ 34 $ 63
IBNR net reserves decreased$7 million as of including state-based industry pool or facility programs
December 31, 2023 compared to December 31, 2022. mandating participation by insurers offering certain
IBNR provides for reserve development of known coverage in their state and the federal government
claims and future reporting of additional unknown National Flood Insurance Program (“NFIP”). See Note 11
claims from current policyholders and ceding of the consolidated financial statements for additional
companies. details on these programs.
Reinsurance and indemnification programs We Intercompany reinsurance We enter into certain
utilize reinsurance to reduce exposure to catastrophe intercompany insurance and reinsurance transactions
risk and manage capital, and to support the required in order to maintain underwriting control and manage
statutory surplus and the insurance financial strength insurance risk among various legal entities. These
ratings of certain subsidiaries such as Castle Key reinsurance agreements have been approved by the
Insurance Company (“CKIC”) and Allstate New Jersey appropriate regulatory authorities. All significant
Insurance Company (“ANJ”). We purchase significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated in
reinsurance to manage our aggregate countrywide consolidation.
exposure to an acceptable level. The price and terms
Catastrophe reinsurance We anticipate
of reinsurance and the credit quality of the reinsurer
completing the placement of our 2024 nationwide
are considered in the purchase process. We have also
catastrophe reinsurance program in the first half of
purchased reinsurance to mitigate exposures in our
2024. For further details of the existing 2023 program,
long-tail liability lines, including environmental,
see Note 11 of the consolidated financial statements.
asbestos and other run-off lines as well as our
commercial lines, including shared economy. We also
participate in various indemnification mechanisms,
164 2023 Annual ReportProperty and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves
Reinsurance and indemnification recoverables, net of the allowance established for uncollectible amounts
Reinsurance or
A.M. Best indemnification
S&P financial financial recoverables on paid and
strength strength unpaid claims, net
($ in millions) rating(1) rating(1) 2023 2022
Indemnification programs
State-based industry pool or facility programs
MCCA (2) N/A N/A $ 6,424 $ 6,722
New Jersey Property-Liability Insurance Guaranty
Association (“PLIGA”) N/A N/A 326 330
North Carolina Reinsurance Facility (“NCRF”) N/A N/A 382 292
Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund (“FHCF”) N/A N/A 82 96
Other 32 7
Federal Government - NFIP N/A N/A 76 145
Subtotal 7,322 7,592
Catastrophe reinsurance recoverables
Swiss Reinsurance America Corporation AA- A+ 37 64
Sanders RE II LTD. N/A N/A 36 85
Renaissance Reinsurance Limited A+ A+ 31 56
Other 246 558
Subtotal 350 763
Other reinsurance recoverables, net(3)
Lloyd’s of London (“Lloyd’s”) AA- A 180 180
Aleka Insurance Inc. N/A N/A 113 183
Pacific Valley Insurance Company, Inc. N/A N/A 67 88
Swiss Reinsurance America Corporation AA- A+ 47 67
Other, including allowance for credit losses 545 575
Subtotal 952 1,093
Total Property-Liability 8,624 9,448
Protection Services 26 19
Total $ 8,650 $ 9,467
(1) N/A reflects no S&P Global Ratings (“S&P”) or A.M. Best ratings available.
(2) As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, MCCA includes $62 million of reinsurance recoverable on paid claims and $6.36 billion and
$6.66 billion of reinsurance recoverable on unpaid claims, respectively.
(3) Other reinsurance recoverables primarily relate to commercial lines, including shared economy, as well as asbestos, environmental
and other liability exposures.
Reinsurance and indemnification recoverables uncollectible reinsurance is also an inherently uncertain
include an estimate of the amount of insurance claims process involving estimates. Changes in estimates
and claims expense reserves that are ceded under the could result in additional changes to the Consolidated
terms of the agreements, including IBNR unpaid losses. Statements of Operations.
We calculate our ceded reinsurance and
Indemnification recoverables are considered
indemnification estimates based on the terms of each
collectible based on the industry pool and facility
applicable agreement, including an estimate of how
enabling legislation and the Company has not had any
IBNR losses will ultimately be ceded under the
credit losses related to these programs and we do not
agreement. We also consider other limitations and
anticipate losses in the foreseeable future. We also
coverage exclusions under our agreements.
have not experienced credit losses on our catastrophe
Accordingly, our estimate of recoverables is subject to
reinsurance programs, which include highly rated
similar risks and uncertainties as our estimate of
reinsurers.
reserves for claims and claims expense. We believe the
recoverables are appropriately established; however, The allowance for uncollectible reinsurance relates
as our underlying reserves continue to develop, the to other reinsurance programs primarily related to our
amount ultimately recoverable may vary from amounts Run-off Property-Liability segment. The allowance was
currently recorded. We regularly evaluate the $62 million as of December 31, 2023 and 2022.
reinsurers and the respective amounts of our
The allowance is based upon our ongoing review of
reinsurance recoverables, and a provision for
amounts outstanding, length of collection periods,
uncollectible reinsurance recoverables is recorded, if
changes in reinsurer credit standing, and other
needed. The establishment of reinsurance
relevant factors. In addition, in the ordinary course of
recoverables and the related allowance for
165 www.allstate.comProperty and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves
business, we may become involved in coverage recoverable from them and future claims ceded to
disputes with certain of our reinsurers that may them to be considered a higher risk. There has also
ultimately result in lawsuits and arbitrations brought by been consolidation activity in the industry, which
or against such reinsurers to determine the parties’ causes reinsurance risk across the industry to be
rights and obligations under the various reinsurance concentrated among fewer companies.
agreements. We employ dedicated specialists to
See Note 2 of the consolidated financial
manage reinsurance collections and disputes. We also
statements for a description of the methodology
consider recent developments in commutation activity
utilized to calculate the allowance for reinsurance
between reinsurers and cedents, and recent trends in
recoverables.
arbitration and litigation outcomes in disputes
between cedents and reinsurers in seeking to For further details related to our reinsurance and
maximize our reinsurance recoveries. indemnification recoverables, see the Form 10-K
Regulation section in Part I and Note 11 of the
Adverse developments in the insurance industry
consolidated financial statements.
have led to a decline in the financial strength of some
of our reinsurance carriers, causing amounts
Effects of reinsurance ceded and indemnification programs on our premiums earned and claims and claims
expense
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Allstate Protection - Premiums
Indemnification programs
State-based industry pool or facility programs
NCRF $ 323 $ 300 $ 310
MCCA 29 18 20
PLIGA 7 7 7
FHCF 28 24 15
Other 1 — 420
Federal Government - NFIP 327 319 350
Catastrophe reinsurance 995 764 541
Other reinsurance programs 110 261 60
Total Allstate Protection 1,820 1,693 1,723
Run-off Property-Liability — — —
Total Property-Liability 1,820 1,693 1,723
Protection Services 169 176 181
Total effect on premiums earned $ 1,989 $ 1,869 $ 1,904
Allstate Protection - Claims
Indemnification programs
State-based industry pool or facility programs
MCCA $ (185) $ 116 $ 611
NCRF 379 294 279
PLIGA 14 (24) —
FHCF (6) 74 13
Other 1 — 359
Federal Government - NFIP 102 435 267
Catastrophe reinsurance 32 298 1,719
Other reinsurance programs 151 261 85
Total Allstate Protection 488 1,454 3,333
Run-off Property-Liability 29 50 60
Total Property-Liability 517 1,504 3,393
Protection Services 116 96 91
Total effect on claims and claims expense $ 633 $ 1,600 $ 3,484
In 2023, ceded premiums earned increased Michigan personal injury protection coverage. In 2022,
primarily due to catastrophe reinsurance. In 2022, ceded claims and claims expenses decreased $1.88
ceded premiums earned decreased primarily due to billion primarily due to higher gross catastrophe losses
the expiration of legacy National General reinsurance in 2021 that resulted in reinsurance activity. For further
programs. discussion of these items, see Form 10-K Regulation,
Indemnification Programs and Note 11 of the
In 2023, ceded claims and claims expenses
consolidated financial statements.
decreased$967 million primarily due to lower amounts
related to NFIP, and a reduction in gross reserves for
166 2023 Annual ReportProperty and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves
Michigan personal injury protection reserve and claim activity before and after the effects of MCCA recoverables
For the years ended December 31,
2023 2022 2021
($ in millions) Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net
Beginning reserves $ 7,393 $ 735 $ 7,387 $ 747 $ 6,282 $ 670
National General acquisition as of January 4, 2021 — — — — 566 31
Incurred claims and claims expense - current year 307 102 451 175 398 132
Incurred claims and claims expense - prior years (455) (60) (159) (15) 403 59
Claims and claims expense paid - current year (1) (21) (20) (26) (26) (35) (35)
Claims and claims expense paid - prior years (1) (221) (116) (260) (146) (227) (110)
Ending reserves(2) $ 7,003 $ 641 $ 7,393 $ 735 $ 7,387 $ 747
(1) Paid claims and claims expenses reported in the table for the current and prior years, recovered from the MCCA totaled $106
million, $114 million and $117 million in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
(2) Gross reserves for the year ended December 31, 2023, comprise 77% case reserves and 23% IBNR. Gross reserves for the year
ended December 31, 2022, comprise 76% case reserves and 24% IBNR. Gross reserves for the year ended December 31, 2021,
comprise 74% case reserves and 26% IBNR. The MCCA does not require member companies to report ultimate case reserves.
Pending MCCA claims differ from most personal As of December 31, 2023, approximately 1,350 of
lines insurance pending claims as other personal lines our catastrophic claims that are eligible for
policies incurred claims settle in shorter periods due to reimbursement are pending with the MCCA, of which
having a coverage limit. MCCA claims can be approximately 80% represents claims that occurred
outstanding for a claimant’s lifetime, as there is no more than 5 years ago. There are 74 claims with
contractual limitation. Many of these injuries are reserves in excess of $15 million as of December 31,
catastrophic in nature, resulting in serious permanent 2023, which comprise approximately 30% of the gross
disabilities that require attendant and residential care ending reserves in the table above. As a result,
for periods that may span decades. A significant significant developments with a single claimant can
portion of the ultimate incurred claim reserves and the result in volatility in prior year incurred claims.
recoverables can be attributed to a small number of
catastrophic claims that occurred more than five years
ago and continue to pay lifetime benefits.
Pending, new and closed claims for Michigan personal injury protection exposure
For the years ended December 31,
Number of claims (1) 2023 2022 2021
Pending, beginning of year 5,568 5,421 4,857
National General acquisition as of January 4, 2021 — — 525
New 6,496 8,059 8,616
Closed (7,338) (7,912) (8,577)
Pending, end of year 4,726 5,568 5,421
(1) Total claims includes those covered and not covered by the MCCA indemnification.
167 www.allstate.comAllstate Health and Benefits
Allstate Health and Benefits
Allstate Health and Benefits Segment
Allstate Health and Benefits offers employer voluntary benefits, group health and individual health products,
including life, accident, critical illness, hospital indemnity, short-term disability and other health products.
In 2023, Allstate Health and Benefits represented 2.1% of total PIF. Our target customers are consumers with family
and financial protection needs. Additional information on our strategy and outlook can be found in Strategy and
Segment Information.
Effective January 1, 2023, we adopted the FASB guidance revising the accounting for certain long-duration
insurance contracts in the Allstate Health and Benefits segment using the modified retrospective approach at the
transition date of January 1, 2021. See Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements for further information regarding
the impact of the adopted accounting standard on our consolidated financial statements.
Summarized financial information
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Revenues
Accident and health insurance premiums and contract charges $ 1,846 $ 1,832 $ 1,834
Other revenue 447 402 359
Net investment income 82 69 74
Costs and expenses
Accident, health and other policy benefits (1,071) (1,042) (1,060)
Amortization of DAC (150) (136) (128)
Operating costs and expenses (842) (814) (787)
Restructuring and related charges (7) (2) (9)
Income tax expense on operations (63) (64) (60)
Adjusted net income $ 242 $ 245 $ 223
Benefit ratio (1) 56.2 55.1 55.9
Employer voluntary benefits (2) 3,590 3,783 3,804
Group health (3) 136 119 122
Individual health (4) 417 394 407
Policies in force as of December 31 (in thousands) 4,143 4,296 4,333
(1) Benefit ratio is calculated as accident, health and other policy benefits less interest credited to contractholder funds of $33 million,
$33 million, and $34 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively, divided by premiums and
contract charges.
(2) Employer voluntary benefits include supplemental life and health products offered through workplace enrollment.
(3) Group health includes health products and administrative services sold to employers.
(4)Individual health includes short-term medical and other health products sold directly to individuals.
Adjusted net incomedecreased$3 million in 2023 Premiums and contract chargesincreased0.8% or
compared to 2022, primarily due to a decline in $14 million in 2023 compared to 2022, primarily due to
employer voluntary benefits, partially offset by growth in group health, partially offset by a decline in
increases in individual and group health. employer voluntary benefits and individual health.
Premiums and contract charges by line of business
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Employer voluntary benefits $ 1,001 $ 1,033 $ 1,040
Group health 440 385 350
Individual health 405 414 444
Premiums and contract charges $ 1,846 $ 1,832 $ 1,834
168 2023 Annual ReportAllstate Health and Benefits
New annualized premium sales (annualized expected development on reported claims, and
premiums at initial employer voluntary benefits reserves for incurred but not reported claims as shown
customer enrollment or health policy sale) decreased in Note 10 of the consolidated financial statements.
by $2 million to $732 million in 2023. The decrease in
Benefit ratioincreased1.1 points to 56.2 in 2023
2023 primarily relates to a decline in employer
compared to 55.1 in 2022, primarily due to higher
voluntary benefits, partially offset by growth in group
benefit utilization in employer voluntary benefits and
health and individual health businesses.
group health, partially offset by lower benefit utilization
Other revenueincreased$45 million in 2023 in individual health.
compared to 2022, primarily due to an increase in
Amortization of DAC increased10.3% or $14 million
group health administrative fees.
in 2023 compared to 2022, primarily due to higher
Accident, health and other policy benefits amortization related to growth in individual health. For
increased2.8% or $29 million in 2023 compared to information on changes in DAC, see Note 12 of the
2022, primarily due to growth in group health, partially consolidated financial statements.
offset by lower benefit utilization in individual health.
Accident, health and other policy benefits include
changes in the reserve for future policy benefits,
Operating costs and expenses
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Non-deferrable commissions $ 319 $ 321 $ 316
General and administrative expenses 523 493 471
Total operating costs and expenses $ 842 $ 814 $ 787
Operating costs and expensesincreased$28 million in 2023 compared to 2022, primarily due to growth in group
health and investments in the employer voluntary benefits business.
Allstate Health and Benefits reinsurance ceded
The vast majority of reinsurance relates to the disposition of long-term care and other closed blocks of business.
We retain primary liability as a direct insurer for all risks ceded to reinsurers.
Reinsurance recoverables by reinsurer, net
S&P financial A.M. Best financial Reinsurance recoverable on paid
strength rating strength rating and unpaid benefits
As of December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022
Mutual of Omaha Insurance A+ A+ $ 70 $ 65
Everlake Life Insurance Company NR A+ 33 35
Argo Capital Group Ltd. NR NR 24 20
General Re Life Corporation AA+ A++ 15 13
Midlands Casualty Insurance Company NR NR 15 16
Other(1) 5 6
Credit loss allowance (3) (3)
Total $ 159 $ 152
(1) As of December 31, 2023, the other category includes $4 million and $5 million of recoverables due from reinsurers rated A- or
better by S&P and A.M. Best, respectively. As of December 31, 2022, the other category includes $3 million and $4 million of
recoverables due from reinsurers rated A- or better by S&P and A.M. Best, respectively.
We continuously monitor the creditworthiness of reinsurers in order to determine our risk of recoverability on an
individual and aggregate basis. No reinsurance recoverables have been written off in the three-years ended
December 31, 2023.
169 www.allstate.comInvestments
Investments
Overview and strategy We utilize two primary strategies to manage risks
and returns and to position our portfolio to take
The return on our investment portfolios is an
advantage of market opportunities while attempting to
important component of our ability to offer good value
mitigate adverse effects. As strategies and market
to customers, fund business improvements and create
conditions evolve, the asset allocation may change.
value for shareholders. Investment portfolios are held
for Property-Liability, Protection Services, Allstate Market-basedstrategy seeks to deliver predictable
Health and Benefits and Corporate and Other earnings aligned to business needs and provide
operations. While taking into consideration the flexibility to adjust investment risk profile based on
investment portfolio in aggregate, management of the enterprise objectives and market opportunities primarily
underlying portfolios is significantly influenced by the through public and private fixed income investments
nature of each respective business and its and public equity securities.
corresponding liability profile. For each business, we
Performance-basedstrategy seeks to deliver
identify a strategic asset allocation which considers
attractive risk-adjusted returns and supplement market
both the nature of the liabilities and the risk and return
risk with idiosyncratic risk. Returns are impacted by a
characteristics of the various asset classes in which we
variety of factors including general macroeconomic and
invest. This allocation is informed by our long-term
public market conditions as public benchmarks are
business and market expectations, as well as other
often used in the valuation of underlying investments.
considerations such as risk appetite, portfolio
Variability in earnings will also result from the
diversification, duration, desired liquidity and capital.
performance of the underlying assets or business and
Within appropriate ranges relative to strategic
the timing of sales of those investments. Earnings from
allocations, tactical allocations are made in
the sales of investments may be recorded as net
consideration of prevailing and potential future market
investment income or net gains and losses on
conditions. We manage risks that involve uncertainty
investments and derivatives. The portfolio, which
related to interest rates, inflation, credit spreads, equity
primarily includes private equity (including infrastructure
returns and currency exchange rates.
investments) and real estate with a majority being
The Property-Liability portfolio emphasizes limited partnerships, is diversified across a number of
protection of principal and consistent income characteristics, including managers or partners, vintage
generation, within a total return framework. This years, investment strategies, geographies (including
approach has produced competitive returns over the international) and industry sectors or property types.
long term and is designed to ensure financial strength These investments are generally illiquid in nature, often
and stability for paying claims, while maximizing require specialized expertise, typically involve a third-
economic value and surplus growth. Products with lower party manager, and enhance returns and income
liquidity needs, such as auto insurance and run-off lines, through transformation at the company or property
and capital create capacity to invest in less liquid higher level. A portion of these investments seek returns in
yielding fixed income securities, performance-based markets or asset classes that are dislocated or special
investments such as limited partnerships and equity situations, primarily in private markets.
securities. Products with higher liquidity needs, such as
Investments in the Middle East As of December
homeowners insurance, are invested primarily in high
31, 2023, we have approximately $47 million investment
quality liquid fixed income securities.
exposure in the Middle East, of which approximately $43
The Protection Services portfolio is focused on million is held in Israel, which is primarily indirect
protection of principal and consistent income exposure through funds managed by external asset
generation, within a total return framework. The managers.
portfolio is largely comprised of fixed income securities
Investments in Russia and Ukraine As of
with a lesser allocation to equity securities and short-
December 31, 2023, we do not have any direct or
term investments.
indirect investments in Russia, Belarus or Ukraine.
The Allstate Health and Benefits portfolio is focused
on protection of principal and consistent income
generation while targeting an appropriate return on
capital. The portfolio is largely comprised of fixed
income securities with a small allocation to commercial
mortgage loans and equity securities.
The Corporate and Other portfolio is focused on
liquidity needs and capital preservation within a total
return framework. The portfolio is largely comprised of
high-quality liquid fixed income securities and short-
term investments.
170 2023 Annual ReportInvestments
Investments Outlook market yields provide an opportunity to increase risk-
adjusted returns. As recession risks remain elevated, we
We plan to focus on the following priorities:
also retained defensive positioning to equity risk and
• Enhance investment portfolio returns through use credit risk in the portfolio through a reduced allocation
of a dynamic capital allocation framework and focus to public equity, high yield bonds and bank loans. We
on tax efficiency. expect to maintain performance-based investments in
our portfolio, consistent with our strategy to have a
• Leverage our broad capabilities to manage the
greater proportion of return derived from idiosyncratic
portfolio to earn higher risk-adjusted returns on
assets or operating performance.
capital.
• Invest for the specific needs and characteristics of Contractual maturities and yields of fixed income
Allstate’s businesses, including its corresponding securities for the next three years
liability profile. Fixed income securities
($ in millions) Carrying value Investment yield
We utilize our integrated enterprise risk and return
2024 $ 3,374 3.0 %
management framework to determine the amount of
investment risk we are willing to accept. After reducing 2025 6,288 3.5
interest rate risk by shortening the portfolio duration 2026 5,565 3.5
beginning in late 2021, during 2023 we extended the
fixed income portfolio duration as the sustained higher
Portfolio composition and strategy by reporting segment( 1)
As of December 31, 2023
Allstate
Property- Protection Health and Corporate
($ in millions) Liability Services Benefits and Other Total
Fixed income securities (2) $ 43,466 $ 1,796 $ 1,806 $ 1,797 $ 48,865
Equity securities (3) 1,516 254 44 597 2,411
Mortgage loans, net 701 — 121 — 822
Limited partnership interests 8,366 — — 14 8,380
Short-term investments (4) 4,555 130 92 367 5,144
Other investments, net 936 — 119 — 1,055
Total $ 59,540 $ 2,180 $ 2,182 $ 2,775 $ 66,677
Percentage to total 89.3 % 3.3 % 3.3 % 4.1 % 100.0 %
Market-based $ 50,019 $ 2,180 $ 2,182 $ 2,553 $ 56,934
Performance-based 9,521 — — 222 9,743
Total $ 59,540 $ 2,180 $ 2,182 $ 2,775 $ 66,677
(1) Balances reflect the elimination of related party investments between segments.
(2) Fixed income securities are carried at fair value. Amortized cost, net for these securities was $44.06 billion, $1.85 billion, $1.91 billion,
$1.83 billion and $49.65 billion for Property-Liability, Protection Services, Allstate Health and Benefits, Corporate and Other, and in
total, respectively.
(3) Equity securities are carried at fair value. The fair value of equity securities held as of December 31, 2023 was $167 million in excess of
cost. These net gains were primarily concentrated in the technology and banking sectors. Equity securities include $1.02 billion of
funds with underlying investments in fixed income securities as of December 31, 2023.
(4)Short-term investments are carried at fair value.
Investments totaled $66.68 billion as of December 31, 2023, increasing from $61.83 billion as of December 31, 2022,
primarily due to positive operating cash flows, higher fixed income valuations and to support higher reserves, partially
offset by dividends paid to shareholders and common share repurchases.
171 www.allstate.comInvestments
Portfolio composition by investment strategy
As of December 31, 2023
Market- Performance-
($ in millions) based based Total
Fixed income securities $ 48,749 $ 116 $ 48,865
Equity securities 1,768 643 2,411
Mortgage loans, net 822 — 822
Limited partnership interests 141 8,239 8,380
Short-term investments 5,144 — 5,144
Other investments, net 310 745 1,055
Total $ 56,934 $ 9,743 $ 66,677
Percent to total 85.4 % 14.6 % 100.0 %
Unrealized net capital gains and losses
Fixed income securities $ (784) $ — $ (784)
Limited partnership interests — (4) (4)
Short-term investments (1) — (1)
Other investments (2) — (2)
Total $ (787) $ (4) $ (791)
During 2023, strategic actions focused on features associated with the securities) during 2023
optimizing portfolio yield, return and risk in the more from 3.4 years as of December 31, 2022. Considering the
volatile and rising interest rate environment. The ongoing risk of recession, we retained a lower allocation
sustained higher market yields provide an opportunity to high-yield bonds, bank loans and public equity
to increase risk-adjusted returns, so we extended the relative to year-end 2022. We maintained performance-
fixed income portfolio duration to 4.8 years (including based investments in the Property-Liability portfolio.
the effect of interest rate derivatives and any call
Fixed income securities
Fixed income securities by type
Fair value as of December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022
U.S. government and agencies $ 8,619 $ 7,898
Municipal 6,006 6,210
Corporate 31,205 26,263
Foreign government 1,290 957
Asset-backed securities (“ABS”) 1,745 1,157
Total fixed income securities $ 48,865 $ 42,485
Fixed income securities are rated by third-party and the categorization of these securities is based on
credit rating agencies or are internally rated. The the expected ratings indicated by internal analysis.
Securities Valuation Office (“SVO”) of the National
As of December 31, 2023, 91.5% of the consolidated
Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”)
fixed income securities portfolio was rated investment
evaluates the fixed income securities of insurers for
grade. Credit ratings below these designations are
regulatory reporting and capital assessment purposes.
considered lower credit quality or below investment
The NAIC assigns securities to one of six credit quality
grade, which includes high yield bonds.
categories defined as “NAIC designations”. In general,
securities with NAIC designations of 1 and 2 are Market prices for certain securities may have credit
considered investment grade and securities with NAIC spreads which imply higher or lower credit quality than
designations of 3 through 6 are considered below the current third-party rating. Our initial investment
investment grade. The rating is either received from the decisions and ongoing monitoring procedures for fixed
SVO based on availability of applicable ratings from income securities are based on a due diligence process
rating agencies on the NAIC Nationally Recognized which includes, but is not limited to, an assessment of
Statistical Rating Organizations provider list, including the credit quality, sector, structure and liquidity risks of
Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”), S&P Global each issuer.
Ratings (“S&P”), Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”), or a comparable
Fixed income portfolio monitoring is a
internal rating.
comprehensive process to identify and evaluate each
As a result of time lags between the funding of fixed income security that may require a credit loss
investments, the finalization of legal documents, and allowance. The process includes a quarterly review of all
the completion of the SVO filing process, the portfolio securities to identify instances where the fair value of a
includes certain securities that have not yet been security compared to its amortized cost is below
designated by the SVO as of each balance sheet date internally established thresholds. For further detail on
172 2023 Annual ReportInvestments
our fixed income portfolio monitoring process, see The following table presents total fixed income
Note 5 of the consolidated financial statements. securities by the applicable NAIC designation and
comparable S&P rating.
Fair value and unrealized net capital gains (losses) for fixed income securities by credit rating
December 31, 2023
NAIC 1 NAIC 2 NAIC 3
A and above BBB BB
Fair Unrealized Fair Unrealized Fair Unrealized
($ in millions) value gain (loss) value gain (loss) value gain (loss)
U.S. government and agencies $ 8,619 $ (5) $ — $ — $ — $ —
Municipal 5,963 (43) 34 (1) 7 —
Corporate
Public 7,019 (55) 15,560 (392) 611 (28)
Privately placed 1,651 (54) 2,867 (92) 1,890 (45)
Total corporate 8,670 (109) 18,427 (484) 2,501 (73)
Foreign government 1,289 4 1 — — —
ABS 1,669 (1) 16 — 10 —
Total fixed income securities $ 26,210 $ (154) $ 18,478 $ (485) $ 2,518 $ (73)
NAIC 4 NAIC 5-6
B CCC and lower Total
Fair Unrealized Fair Unrealized Fair Unrealized
value gain (loss) value gain (loss) value gain (loss)
U.S. government and agencies $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 8,619 $ (5)
Municipal — — 2 1 6,006 (43)
Corporate
Public 108 (3) — — 23,298 (478)
Privately placed 1,358 (59) 141 (18) 7,907 (268)
Total corporate 1,466 (62) 141 (18) 31,205 (746)
Foreign government — — — — 1,290 4
ABS — — 50 7 1,745 6
Total fixed income securities $ 1,466 $ (62) $ 193 $ (10) $ 48,865 $ (784)
Municipal bonds, including tax exempt and taxable securities. Additionally, investments in these securities
securities, include general obligations of state and local are made after fundamental analysis of issuers and
issuers and revenue bonds. sectors along with macro and asset class views.
Ongoing monitoring includes continuous assessment of
Our practice for acquiring and monitoring municipal
operating performance and financial position. Every
bonds is predominantly based on the underlying credit
issue not rated by an independent rating agency is
quality of the primary obligor. We currently rely on the
internally rated with a formal rating affirmation at least
primary obligor to pay all contractual cash flows and are
once a year. Liquidity of securities issued by public
not relying on bond insurers for payments. As a result of
entities in unregistered form is similar to public debt
downgrades in the insurers’ credit ratings, the ratings of
markets.
the insured municipal bonds generally reflect the
underlying ratings of the primary obligor. Our corporate bond portfolio includes $4.11 billion of
below investment grade bonds, $3.39 billion of which
Corporate bonds include publicly traded and
are privately placed, primarily 144A bonds. These
privately placed securities. Privately placed securities
securities are diversified by issuer and industry sector.
primarily consist of corporate issued senior debt
The below investment grade corporate bonds portfolio
securities that are negotiated with the borrower or are
is made up of 317 issuers. We employ fundamental
issued by entities in unregistered form under SEC Rule
analyses of issuers and sectors along with macro and
144A which allows purchasers to more easily resell these
asset class views to identify investment opportunities.
securities under certain conditions.
This results in a portfolio with broad exposure to the
Our $7.91 billion portfolio of privately placed high yield market with an emphasis on idiosyncratic
securities, primarily 144A bonds, is diversified by issuer, positions reflective of our views of market conditions
industry sector and country. The portfolio is made up of and opportunities.
455 issuers. Privately placed corporate obligations may
Foreign government securities consist of Canadian
contain structural security features such as financial
governmental and provincial securities (all of which are
covenants and call protections that provide investors
held by our Canadian companies).
greater protection against credit deterioration,
reinvestment risk or fluctuations in interest rates than
those typically found in publicly registered debt
173 www.allstate.comInvestments
ABS are structured securities that are primarily exposure include property type and geographic
collateralized by consumer or corporate borrowings and diversification. For further detail on our mortgage loan
residential and commercial real estate loans. The cash portfolio, see Note 5 of the consolidated financial
flows from the underlying collateral paid to the statements.
securitization trust are generally applied in a pre-
Limited partnership interests include $7.15 billion of
determined order and are designed so that each
interests in private equity funds, $1.09 billion of interests
security issued by the trust, typically referred to as a
in real estate funds and $141 million of interests in other
“class”, qualifies for a specific original rating.
funds as of December 31, 2023. We have commitments
ABS includes collateralized debt obligations, to invest additional amounts in limited partnership
consumer and other ABS. Credit risk is managed by interests totaling $2.94 billion as of December 31, 2023.
monitoring the performance of the underlying collateral.
Many of the securities in the ABS portfolio have credit Private equity limited partnerships by sector
enhancement with features such as (% of carrying value) December 31, 2023
overcollateralization, subordinated structures, reserve Industrial 20.8 %
funds, guarantees or insurance. ABS also includes Healthcare 12.5
residential mortgage-backed securities and commercial Information technology 11.3
mortgage-backed securities.
Consumer discretionary 10.9
For example, the “senior” portion or “top” of the Consumer staples 8.8
capital structure, or rating class, which would originally Other 35.7
qualify for a rating of Aaa typically has priority in Total 100.0 %
receiving principal repayments on the underlying
collateral and retains this priority until the class is paid Real estate limited partnerships by sector
in full. In a sequential structure, underlying collateral
(% of carrying value) December 31, 2023
principal repayments are directed to the most senior
Industrial 28.8 %
rated Aaa class in the structure until paid in full, after
Residential 19.1
which principal repayments are directed to the next
Data centers 19.0
most senior Aaa class in the structure until it is paid in
full. Senior Aaa classes generally share any losses from Healthcare 11.4
the underlying collateral on a pro-rata basis after losses Consumer staples 5.1
are absorbed by classes with lower original ratings. Other 16.6
Total 100.0 %
The payment priority and class subordination
included in these securities serves as credit
Short-term investments of $5.14 billion primarily
enhancement for holders of the senior or top portions of
comprise money market funds, commercial paper, U.S.
the structures. These securities continue to retain the
Treasury bills and other short-term investments,
payment priority features that existed at the origination
including securities lending collateral of $1.59 billion.
of the securitization trust. Other forms of credit
enhancement may include structural features Other investments primarily comprise $224 million of
embedded in the securitization trust, such as bank loans, $709 million of real estate, $119 million of
overcollateralization, excess spread and bond insurance. policy loans and $1 million of derivatives as of December
The underlying collateral may contain fixed interest 31, 2023. For further detail on our use of derivatives, see
rates, variable interest rates (such as adjustable rate Note 7 of the consolidated financial statements.
mortgages), or both fixed and variable rate features.
Direct real estate investments by sector
Equity securities of $2.41 billion primarily include
(% of carrying value) December 31, 2023
common stocks, exchange traded and mutual funds,
Agriculture 28.6 %
non-redeemable preferred stocks and real estate
Industrial 23.7
investment trust (“REIT”) equity investments. Certain
Residential 20.6
exchange traded and mutual funds have fixed income
securities as their underlying investments. Retail 18.5
Other 8.6
Mortgage loans of $822 million mainly comprise loans
Total 100.0 %
secured by first mortgages on developed commercial
real estate. Key considerations used to manage our
174 2023 Annual ReportInvestments
Unrealized net capital gains (losses)
As of December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022
U.S. government and agencies $ (5) $ (225)
Municipal (43) (290)
Corporate (746) (2,299)
Foreign government 4 (40)
ABS 6 (31)
Fixed income securities (784) (2,885)
Short-term investments (1) (1)
Derivatives (2) (3)
Equity method of accounting (“EMA”) limited partnerships (4) 2
Unrealized net capital gains and losses, pre-tax $ (791) $ (2,887)
Gross unrealized gains (losses) on fixed income securities by type and sector
As of December 31, 2023
Amortized Gross unrealized
($ in millions) cost, net Gains Losses Fair value
Corporate
Banking (1) $ 4,189 $ 31 $ (135) $ 4,085
Basic industry 1,007 7 (42) 972
Capital goods 2,800 33 (97) 2,736
Communications 2,767 33 (115) 2,685
Consumer goods (cyclical and non-cyclical) 6,813 93 (251) 6,655
Financial services 2,111 17 (88) 2,040
Energy 2,645 35 (63) 2,617
Technology 2,800 21 (153) 2,668
Transportation 1,104 13 (45) 1,072
Utilities 5,330 109 (123) 5,316
Other 385 5 (31) 359
Total corporate fixed income portfolio 31,951 397 (1,143) 31,205
U.S. government and agencies 8,624 114 (119) 8,619
Municipal 6,049 109 (152) 6,006
Foreign government 1,286 17 (13) 1,290
ABS 1,739 13 (7) 1,745
Total fixed income securities $ 49,649 $ 650 $ (1,434) $ 48,865
(1) As of December 31, 2023, we have exposure of approximately $90 million to regional banks primarily through investment grade
corporate bonds.
175 www.allstate.comInvestments
Gross unrealized gains (losses) on fixed income securities by type and sector
As of December 31, 2022
Amortized Gross unrealized
($ in millions) cost, net Gains Losses Fair value
Corporate
Banking $ 5,153 $ 16 $ (314) $ 4,855
Basic industry 1,019 2 (75) 946
Capital goods 2,288 3 (197) 2,094
Communications 2,422 1 (261) 2,162
Consumer goods (cyclical and non-cyclical) 5,984 6 (531) 5,459
Financial services 2,243 4 (176) 2,071
Energy 2,364 2 (156) 2,210
Technology 3,137 4 (298) 2,843
Transportation 959 1 (73) 887
Utilities 2,633 7 (203) 2,437
Other 360 — (61) 299
Total corporate fixed income portfolio 28,562 46 (2,345) 26,263
U.S. government and agencies 8,123 6 (231) 7,898
Municipal 6,500 36 (326) 6,210
Foreign government 997 — (40) 957
ABS 1,188 4 (35) 1,157
Total fixed income securities $ 45,370 $ 92 $ (2,977) $ 42,485
In general, the gross unrealized losses are related to an increase in market yields, which may include increased risk-
free interest rates and wider credit spreads since the time of initial purchase. Similarly, gross unrealized gains reflect a
decrease in market yields since the time of initial purchase.
Equity securities by sector
December 31, 2023 December 31, 2022
Over (under) Over (under)
($ in millions) Cost cost Fair value Cost cost Fair value
Banking $ 30 $ 38 $ 68 $ 135 $ 56 $ 191
Basic Industry 9 2 11 57 16 73
Capital Goods 77 (27) 50 196 3 199
Energy 32 3 35 110 44 154
Funds
Equities 258 12 270 904 (19) 885
Fixed income 1,038 (15) 1,023 1,067 (84) 983
Other 58 5 63 3 — 3
Total funds 1,354 2 1,356 1,974 (103) 1,871
Transportation 16 $ 23 39 48 19 67
Utilities 59 1 60 67 12 79
Other (1) 667 125 792 1,666 267 1,933
Total equity securities $ 2,244 $ 167 $ 2,411 $ 4,253 $ 314 $ 4,567
(1)Other is comprised of consumer goods, technology, REITs, financial services and communications sectors.
176 2023 Annual ReportInvestments
Net investment income
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Fixed income securities $ 1,761 $ 1,255 $ 1,148
Equity securities 75 132 100
Mortgage loans 35 33 43
Limited partnership interests 499 985 1,973
Short-term investments 253 82 5
Other investments 169 162 195
Investment income, before expense 2,792 2,649 3,464
Investment expense
Investee level expenses (79) (68) (60)
Securities lending expense (93) (30) —
Operating costs and expenses (142) (148) (111)
Total investment expense (314) (246) (171)
Net investment income $ 2,478 $ 2,403 $ 3,293
Property-Liability $ 2,218 $ 2,190 $ 3,118
Protection Services 73 48 43
Allstate Health and Benefits 82 69 74
Corporate and Other 105 96 58
Net investment income $ 2,478 $ 2,403 $ 3,293
Market-based $ 2,219 $ 1,566 $ 1,429
Performance-based 573 1,083 2,035
Investment income, before expense $ 2,792 $ 2,649 $ 3,464
Net investment incomeincreased3.1% or $75 million in 2023 compared to 2022, primarily due to higher market-
based results driven by reinvesting into fixed income securities with higher yields and to a lesser extent, the
reinvestment of proceeds from sales of equity securities into fixed income securities, partially offset by lower
performance-based results, mainly from limited partnerships.
Performance-based investment income
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Private equity $ 414 $ 798 $ 1,660
Real estate 159 285 375
Total performance-based income before investee level expenses $ 573 $ 1,083 $ 2,035
Investee level expenses(1) (74) (59) (55)
Total performance-based income $ 499 $ 1,024 $ 1,980
(1) Investee level expenses include asset level operating expenses on directly held real estate and other consolidated investments
reported in investment expense.
Performance-based investment incomedecreased Performance-based investment results and income
51.3% or $525 million in 2023 compared to 2022, can vary significantly between periods and are
primarily due to lower valuation increases compared to influenced by economic conditions, equity market
the prior year and lower income from the sales of performance, comparable public company earnings
underlying investments. multiples, capitalization rates, operating performance of
the underlying investments and the timing of asset
sales. The company typically employs a lag in recording
and recognizing changes in valuations of limited
partnership interests due to the availability of investee
financial statements.
177 www.allstate.comInvestments
Components of net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives and the related tax effect
For the year December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Sales $ (433) $ (832) $ 578
Credit losses (99) (54) (42)
Valuation change of equity investments - appreciation (decline):
Equity securities 239 (772) 544
Equity fund investments in fixed income securities 43 (128) (24)
Limited partnerships(1) 34 (160) (21)
Total valuation of equity investments 316 (1,060) 499
Valuation change and settlements of derivatives (84) 874 49
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives, pre-tax (300) (1,072) 1,084
Income tax benefit (expense) 63 230 (237)
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives, after-tax $ (237) $ (842) $ 847
Property-Liability $ (230) $ (688) $ 798
Protection Services — (40) 19
Allstate Health and Benefits 2 (35) 5
Corporate and Other (9) (79) 25
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives, after-tax $ (237) $ (842) $ 847
Market-based $ (352) $ (1,083) $ 917
Performance-based 52 11 167
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives, pre-tax $ (300) $ (1,072) $ 1,084
(1) Relates to limited partnerships where the underlying assets are predominately public equity securities.
Net losses on investments and derivatives in 2023 Net losses on valuation change and settlements of
related primarily to losses on sales, partially offset by derivatives of $84 million in 2023 primarily related to net
higher valuation on equity investments. Net losses on losses on equity futures used to manage equity
investments and derivatives in 2022 related primarily to exposure, losses on credit default swaps used to reduce
decreased valuation on equity investments and losses credit risk and losses on foreign currency contracts
on sales of fixed income securities, partially offset by used to manage foreign currency risk. Net gains in 2022
increased valuation change and settlements of primarily comprised of gains on interest rate futures
derivatives. used to mitigate the impact of increases in interest
rates, gains on foreign currency contracts due to the
Net losses on salesin 2023 and 2022 related
strengthening of the U.S. dollar and gains on equity
primarily to sales of fixed income securities in
futures used to manage exposure to equity markets.
connection with ongoing portfolio management.
Net gains (losses) on performance-based investments and derivatives
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Sales $ 76 $ 29 $ 111
Credit losses (68) (30) (43)
Valuation change of equity investments 58 (35) 71
Valuation change and settlements of derivatives (14) 47 28
Total performance-based $ 52 $ 11 $ 167
Net gains on performance-based investments and derivatives in 2023 primarily related to gains on sales and
increased valuation of equity investments, partially offset by increased credit losses. 2022 primarily related to increased
valuation change and settlements of derivatives and gains on sales, partially offset by decreased valuation of equity
investments.
178 2023 Annual ReportMarket Risk
Market Risk
Market risk is the risk that we will incur losses due We use widely-accepted quantitative and
to adverse changes in interest rates, credit spreads, qualitative approaches to measure, monitor and
equity prices, commodity prices or foreign currency manage market risk. We evaluate our market risk
exchange rates. Adverse changes to these rates and exposure using multiple measures including but not
prices may occur due to changes in fiscal policy, limited to:
inflation, the economic climate, the liquidity of a
market or market segment, insolvency or financial • Duration, a measure of the price sensitivity of assets
and liabilities to changes in interest rates
distress of key market makers or participants or
changes in market perceptions of credit worthiness or • Value-at-risk, a statistical estimate that the change in
fair value of a portfolio will exceed a certain amount
risk tolerance. Our primary market risk exposures are
over a given time horizon, at a specified probability
to changes in interest rates, credit spreads and equity
• Scenario analysis, an estimate of the potential changes
prices, and to a lesser extent, foreign currency
in the fair value of a portfolio that could occur under
exchange rates. We also have direct and indirect hypothetical market conditions defined by changes to
exposure to commodity price changes through our multiple market risk factors: interest rates, credit
diversified investments in agriculture, infrastructure spreads, equity prices or currency exchange rates
and energy primarily held in limited partnership • Sensitivity analysis, an estimate of the potential
interests and consolidated subsidiaries. changes in the fair value of a portfolio that could occur
using hypothetical shocks to a market risk factor
The active management of market risk is integral
to our results of operations. We may use the following The selection of measures used in our sensitivity
analysis should not be construed as our prediction of
approaches to manage exposure to market risk within
future market events, but only as an illustration of the
defined tolerance ranges:
potential effect of such an event
1) Rebalance existing asset or liability portfolios
2) Change the type of investments purchased in the In general, we establish investment portfolio asset
future allocation and market risk limits based upon a
combination of these measures. The asset allocation
3) Use derivative instruments to modify the market
limits place restrictions on the total funds that may be
risk characteristics of existing assets and liabilities
invested within an asset class. Comprehensive day-to-
or assets expected to be purchased
day management of market risk within defined
Overview In formulating and implementing tolerance ranges occurs as portfolio managers buy and
guidelines for investing funds, we seek to earn sell within their respective markets based upon the
attractive risk-adjusted returns that enhance our ability acceptable boundaries established by investment
to offer competitive prices to customers while policies. Although we apply a similar overall philosophy
contributing to stable profits and long-term capital to market risk, the underlying business frameworks
growth. Accordingly, our investment decisions and and the accounting and regulatory environments may
objectives are informed by underlying risks. Investment differ between our products and therefore affect
policies define the overall framework for managing investment decisions and risk parameters. Our actual
market and other investment risks, including experience may differ from the results of the sensitivity
accountability and controls over risk management measurements provided below.
activities. Subsidiaries that conduct investment
Interest rate risk is the risk that we will incur a
activities follow policies that have been approved by
loss due to adverse changes in risk-free interest rates.
their respective boards of directors and which specify
This risk arises from many of our primary activities, as
the investment limits and strategies that are
we invest substantial funds in interest-sensitive assets.
appropriate given the liquidity, surplus, product profile
Changes in interest rates can have favorable and
and regulatory requirements of the subsidiary.
unfavorable effects on our results. For example,
Executive oversight of investment activities is
increases in rates can improve investment income, but
conducted primarily through the subsidiaries’ boards of
decrease the fair value of our fixed income securities
directors and legal entity investment committees. The
portfolio which may result in sales of assets at losses.
Enterprise Risk and Return Council (“ERRC”) oversees
Decreases in rates could increase the fair value of our
the aggregate risk of Allstate and its subsidiaries.
fixed income securities portfolio while decreasing
Working in conjunction with the board or the
future investment income due to reinvestment at lower
investment committee of each subsidiary, as
market yields and accelerated pay-downs and
applicable, the ERRC evaluates the risk tolerance of
prepayments of certain investments.
each subsidiary and determines the aggregate risk
tolerance of the enterprise.
179 www.allstate.comMarket Risk
For our issued debt, we monitor market interest Equity price risk is the risk that we will incur losses
rates and evaluate refinancing opportunities as due to adverse changes in the levels of equity indices,
maturity dates approach. To mitigate this risk, we the value of individual stocks, or private market
ladder the maturity dates of our debt. For our issued valuations related to our limited partnership interests.
noncumulative perpetual preferred stock, we monitor
Equity investments(1) As of December 31, 2023, we
market dividend rates and evaluate opportunities to
held $1.52 billion in equity investments that comprise
redeem or refinance on or after specified dates. For
equity securities, excluding those with fixed income
further detail regarding our debt and our preferred
securities as their underlying investments, and
stock, see Note 13 of the consolidated financial
including limited partnership interests where the
statements and the Capital Resources and Liquidity
underlying assets are predominately public equity
section.
securities, compared to $4.06 billion as of
Our assessment of interest rate risk reflects the December 31, 2022.
effect of changing risk-free interest rates on interest-
sensitive assets, including investments with callable or Change in fair value of equity investments (1) (2)
prepayable features. As of December 31, 2023, the As of December 31,
fixed income portfolio duration(1) was 4.8 compared to ($ in millions) 2023 2022
3.4 as of December 31, 2022. -10% change in equity valuations $ (127) $ (402)
Change in fair value of interest-sensitive assets (1) (2) (1) Includes the effects of equity derivatives.
As of December 31, (2) Represents an immediate change in equity valuations for
($ in millions) 2023 2022 investments.
-100 bps change $ 2,530 $ 1,549 We periodically use derivatives to reduce equity
+100 bps change (2,314) (1,471) price risk or to adjust our equity risk profile. Derivatives
+200 bps change (4,410) (2,864) provide an offset to changes in equity market values.
(1) Includes the effects of interest rate derivatives and any Limited partnership interests As of December 31,
call features associated with the securities. 2023, we held $8.24 billion in limited partnership
(2) Represents an immediate, parallel increase or decrease interests excluding those limited partnership interests
based on information and assumptions used in the where the underlying assets are predominately public
duration calculations. equity securities compared to $7.64 billion as of
December 31, 2022. These illiquid investments are
To the extent that conditions differ from the
primarily comprised of private equity and real estate
assumptions we used in these calculations, duration
funds, with valuation changes typically reflecting the
and rate shock measures could be significantly
idiosyncratic performance of the underlying asset.
impacted. These calculations may not fully capture the
effect of non-parallel changes in the term structure of
Change in fair value of limited partnership
interest rates or large changes in interest rates. interests(1)
Credit spread risk is the risk that we will incur a As of December 31,
loss due to adverse changes in credit spreads ($ in millions) 2023 2022
(“spreads”). A credit spread is the additional yield on -10% change in private market
fixed income securities and loans above the risk-free valuations $ (824) $ (764)
rate that market participants require to compensate
(1) Represents an immediate change in the value of limited
them for assuming credit, liquidity or prepayment risks.
partnership interests.
This risk arises from many of our primary activities, as
we invest substantial funds in spread-sensitive fixed For limited partnership interests, quarterly
income assets. We assess credit spread risk by changes in fair values may not be highly correlated to
evaluating spread duration which measures the price equity indices in the short term and changes in value of
sensitivity of the assets to changes in spreads. these investments are generally recognized on a three-
month delay due to the availability of the related
As of December 31, 2023, the spread duration(1)
investee financial statements.
was 4.7 compared to 4.0 as of December 31, 2022.
Change in fair value of spread-sensitive assets (1) (2)
As of December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022
+100 bps change $ (1,898) $ (1,462)
(1) Includes the effects of credit derivatives and any call
features associated with the securities.
(2) Represents an immediate, parallel increase based on
information and assumptions used in the spread duration
calculations.
180 2023 Annual ReportMarket Risk
Foreign currency exchange rate risk is the risk As of December 31, 2023, we had $3.56 billion in
that we will incur economic losses due to adverse foreign currency denominated investments, including
changes in foreign currency exchange rates. This risk the effects of foreign currency derivative contracts,
primarily arises from our foreign equity investments, and $1.25 billion net investment in our foreign
including common stocks, limited partnership subsidiaries, primarily related to our Canada
interests, and our Canada, Northern Ireland, Europe operations. These amounts were $3.10 billion and $1.14
and India operations. We use foreign currency billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2022.
derivative contracts to partially offset this risk.
Change in fair value of foreign currency
denominated investments (1)
As of December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022
-10% change in foreign currency
exchange rates $ (356) $ (310)
-10% change in net investments
in foreign subsidiaries (125) (114)
(1) Represents an immediate, simultaneous depreciation in
each of the foreign currency exchange rates to which we
are exposed compared to the U.S. dollar, including the
effects of foreign currency derivative contracts and
excludes the offset from liabilities in foreign currencies.
181 www.allstate.comCapital Resources and Liquidity
Capital Resources and Liquidity
Capital resources consist of shareholders’ equity and debt, representing funds deployed or available to be
deployed to support business operations or for general corporate purposes.
Capital resources
As of December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Preferred stock, common stock, treasury stock, retained income and other
shareholders’ equity items $ 18,470 $ 19,880 $ 24,518
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (700) (2,392) 426
Total Allstate shareholders’ equity 17,770 17,488 24,944
Debt 7,942 7,964 7,976
Total capital resources $ 25,712 $ 25,452 $ 32,920
Ratio of debt to Allstate shareholders’ equity 44.7 % 45.5 % 32.0 %
Ratio of debt to capital resources 30.9 % 31.3 % 24.2 %
Allstate shareholders’ equityincreased in 2023, $1.00 per share and liquidation preference amount of
primarily due to lower unrealized net capital losses on $25,000 per share, and the corresponding depositary
investments, partially offset by dividends paid to shares for gross proceeds of $600 million. The
shareholders, common share repurchases and a net preferred stock is perpetual and has no maturity date.
loss. In 2023, we paid dividends of $925 million and The preferred stock is redeemable at the Company’s
$107 million related to our common and preferred option in whole or in part, on or after July 15, 2028 at a
shares, respectively. Allstate shareholders’ equity redemption price of $25,000 per share, plus declared
decreased in 2022, primarily due to net unrealized and unpaid dividends. Prior to July 15, 2028, the
capital losses on investments in 2022 compared to preferred stock is redeemable at the Company’s
gains in 2021, common share repurchases, a net loss option, in whole but not in part, within 90 days of the
and dividends paid to shareholders. In 2022, we paid occurrence of certain rating agency events at a
dividends of $926 million and $105 million related to redemption price equal to $25,500 per share, plus
our common and preferred shares, respectively. declared and unpaid dividends, or in whole but not in
part, within 90 days after the occurrence of a
Repayment of debt On March 29, 2023, the
regulatory capital event, at a redemption price equal to
Company repaid, at maturity, $250 million of Floating
$25,000 per share, plus declared and unpaid dividends.
Rate Senior Notes that bear interest at a floating rate
equal to three-month London Interbank Offered Rate Common share repurchases In July 2023, we
(“LIBOR”) plus 0.63% per year. On June 15, 2023, the suspended repurchasing shares under the current
Company repaid, at maturity, $500 million of 3.15% authorization. As of December 31, 2023, there was $472
Senior Notes. million remaining of the $5.00 billion program. The
authorization for the share repurchase program expires
Issuance of debt On March 31, 2023, the Company
on March 31, 2024.
issued $750 million of 5.25% Senior Notes due 2033.
Interest on the Senior Notes is payable semi-annually During 2023, we repurchased 2.8 million common
in arrears on March 30 and September 30 of each year, shares, or 1.1% of total common shares outstanding as
beginning on September 30, 2023. The Senior Notes of December 31, 2022, for $330 million.
are redeemable at any time at the applicable
Since 1995, we have acquired 792 million shares of
redemption price prior to the maturity date. The net
our common stock at a cost of $43.18 billion, primarily
proceeds of this issuance were used to repay the $500
as part of various stock repurchase programs. We have
million senior debt maturity and for general corporate
reissued 156 million common shares since 1995,
purposes.
primarily associated with our equity incentive plans,
Redemption of preferred stock On April 17, 2023, the 1999 acquisition of American Heritage Life
the Company redeemed all 23,000 shares of Fixed Investment Corporation and the 2001 redemption of
Rate Noncumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, par certain mandatorily redeemable preferred securities.
value $1.00 per share and liquidation preference Since 1995, total common shares outstanding has
$25,000 per share, and the corresponding depositary decreased by 636 million shares or 70.8%, primarily due
shares for a total redemption payment of $575 million. to our repurchase programs.
The Company recognized $18 million of original
Common shareholder dividends On January 3,
issuance costs in preferred stock dividends on the
2023, April 3, 2023, July 3, 2023 and October 2, 2023,
Consolidated Statements of Operations and
we paid a common shareholder dividend of $0.85,
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity.
$0.89, $0.89 and $0.89, respectively. On November 15,
Issuance of preferred stock On May 18, 2023, the 2023, we declared a common shareholder dividend of
Company issued 24,000 shares of Fixed Rate $0.89 payable on January 2, 2024.
Noncumulative Preferred Stock, Series J, par value
182 2023 Annual ReportCapital Resources and Liquidity
Financial ratings and strength
Senior long-term debt, commercial paper and insurance financial strength ratings
As of December 31, 2023
S&P Global
Moody’s Ratings A.M. Best
The Allstate Corporation (debt) A3 BBB+ a-
The Allstate Corporation (short-term issuer) P-2 A-2 AMB-1
Allstate Insurance Company (insurance financial strength) Aa3 A+ A+
Our ratings are influenced by many factors Casualty Insurance Company of New Jersey, Esurance
including our operating and financial performance, Insurance Company of New Jersey). The outlook for the
asset quality, liquidity, overall portfolio mix, financial rating changed from stable to negative. ANJ writes
leverage (i.e., debt), exposure to risks such as auto and homeowners insurance in New Jersey.
catastrophes and the current level of operating Allstate New Jersey Insurance Company also has a
leverage. The preferred stock and subordinated financial strength rating of A” from Demotech, which
debentures are viewed as having a common equity was affirmed in December 2023.
component by certain rating agencies and are given
In August 2023, A.M. Best affirmed the insurance
equity credit up to a pre-determined limit in our capital
financial strength rating of A+ for North Light, our
structure as determined by their respective
excess and surplus lines carrier. The outlook for the
methodologies. These respective methodologies
North Light rating is stable.
consider the existence of certain terms and features in
the instruments such as the noncumulative dividend In August 2023, A.M. Best downgraded the
feature in the preferred stock. insurance financial strength ratings of the members of
Castle Key Group (Castle Key Insurance Company,
The Allstate Corporation (the “Corporation”) and
Castle Key Indemnity Company, Encompass Floridian
Allstate Insurance Company (“AIC”) In March 2023,
Insurance Company, Encompass Floridian Indemnity
Moody’s affirmed The Allstate Corporation’s (the
Company) to B. The outlook for the ratings changed
“Corporation”) senior debt and short-term issuer
from negative to stable. CKIC also has a financial
ratings of A3 and P-2, respectively, and AIC’s insurance
strength rating of A’ from Demotech that was affirmed
financial strength rating of Aa3. The outlook for the
in December 2023.
ratings was changed from stable to negative.
ANJ and North Light do not have support
In August 2023, A.M. Best downgraded the
agreements with AIC.
Corporation’s senior debt and short-term issuer ratings
to a- and AMB-1, respectively, and affirmed AIC’s Allstate’s domestic property and casualty and life
insurance financial strength rating of A+. The outlook insurance subsidiaries prepare their statutory-basis
for the ratings is stable. financial statements in conformity with accounting
practices prescribed or permitted by the insurance
In August 2023, S&P downgraded the
department of the applicable state of domicile.
Corporation’s senior debt rating to BBB+ and affirmed
Statutory surplus is a measure that is often used as a
the short-term issuer rating of A-2, and downgraded
basis for determining dividend paying capacity,
AIC’s insurance financial strength rating to A+. The
operating leverage and premium growth capacity, and
outlook for the ratings changed from negative to
it is also reviewed by rating agencies in determining
stable.
their ratings.
American Heritage Life (“AHL”) In August 2023,
The property and casualty business is comprised
A.M. Best affirmed the insurance financial strength
of 59 insurance companies as of December 31, 2023,
rating of A+ for AHL. The outlook for the rating is
each of which has individual company dividend
stable.
limitations. As of December 31, 2023, total statutory
Other property and casualty companies We have surplus is $14.56 billion compared to $15.28 billion as of
distinct and separately capitalized groups of December 31, 2022. Property and casualty subsidiaries
subsidiaries licensed to sell property and casualty surplus was $14.25 billion as of December 31, 2023,
insurance that maintain separate group ratings. The compared to $15.00 billion as of December 31, 2022.
ratings of these groups are influenced by the risks that Life, accident and health insurance subsidiaries surplus
relate specifically to each group. Many mortgage was $310 million as of December 31, 2023, compared to
companies require property owners to have insurance $279 million as of December 31, 2022.
from an insurance carrier with a secure financial
The NAIC has developed financial relationships or
strength rating from an accredited rating agency.
tests known as the Insurance Regulatory Information
In August 2023, A.M. Best affirmed the insurance System to assist state insurance regulators in
financial strength rating of A of the members of monitoring the financial condition of insurance
Allstate New Jersey Group (Allstate New Jersey companies and identifying companies that require
Insurance Company, Allstate New Jersey Property and special attention or actions by state insurance
Casualty Insurance Company, Encompass Insurance regulators. The NAIC analyzes financial data provided
Company of New Jersey, Encompass Property and by insurance companies using prescribed ratios, each
183 www.allstate.comCapital Resources and Liquidity
with defined “usual ranges”. Additional regulatory ratios outside the usual ranges due to higher written
scrutiny may occur if a company’s ratios fall outside the premiums and net losses in 2023.
usual ranges for four or more of the ratios. Nine of our
domestic insurance companies have four or more
Liquidity sources and usesOur potential sources and uses of funds principally include the following activities below.
Activities for potential sources of funds
Property- Protection Allstate Health Corporate
Liability Services and Benefits and Other
Receipt of insurance premiums ü ü ü
Recurring service fees ü ü ü
Contractholder fund deposits ü
Reinsurance and indemnification program
ü ü ü
recoveries
Receipts of principal, interest and dividends
ü ü ü ü
on investments
Sales of investments ü ü ü ü
Funds from securities lending, commercial
ü ü
paper and line of credit agreements
Intercompany loans ü ü ü ü
Capital contributions from parent (1) ü ü ü ü
Dividends or return of capital from
ü ü ü ü
subsidiaries
Tax refunds/settlements ü ü ü ü
Funds from periodic issuance of additional
ü
securities
Receipt of intercompany settlements related
ü
to employee benefit plans
(1) Capital support is generally at management’s discretion unless contractual commitments are in place.
Activities for potential uses of funds
Property- Protection Allstate Health Corporate
Liability Services and Benefits and Other
Payment of claims and related expenses ü ü
Payment of contract benefits, surrenders and
ü
withdrawals
Reinsurance cessions and indemnification
ü ü ü
program payments
Operating costs and expenses ü ü ü ü
Purchase of investments ü ü ü ü
Repayment of securities lending, commercial
ü ü
paper and line of credit agreements
Payment or repayment of intercompany loans ü ü ü ü
Capital contributions to subsidiaries ü ü ü ü
Dividends or return of capital to
ü ü ü ü
shareholders/parent company
Tax payments/settlements ü ü ü ü
Common share repurchases ü
Debt service expenses and repayment ü ü
Payments related to employee benefit plans ü ü ü ü
Payments for acquisitions ü ü ü ü
Contractual obligations and commitments We contractual commitments that require cash needs
have short-term and long-term contractual obligations beyond 12 months.
and commitments. We manage our short-term liquidity
Short-term contractual obligations are typically
position to ensure the availability of a sufficient
settled with cash or short-term investments and
amount of liquid assets to extinguish short-term
operating cash flows. Most of these obligations are
liabilities as they come due in the normal course of
paid within one year. These include unconditional
business, including utilizing potential sources of
purchase obligations, other liabilities and accrued
liquidity. Long-term obligations include known
expenses, including liabilities for collateral and
operating leases, and net unrecognized tax benefits.
184 2023 Annual ReportCapital Resources and Liquidity
We actively manage our financial position and Parent company capital capacity At the parent
liquidity levels in light of changing market, economic, holding company level, we have deployable assets
and business conditions. Liquidity is managed at both totaling $3.41 billion as of December 31, 2023, primarily
the entity and enterprise level across the Company and comprised of cash and short-term, fixed income and
is assessed on both base and stressed level liquidity equity securities that are generally saleable within one
needs. We believe we have sufficient liquidity to meet quarter. The earnings capacity of the operating
these needs. Additionally, we have existing subsidiaries is the primary source of capital generation
intercompany agreements in place that facilitate for the Corporation.
liquidity management across the Company to enhance
The payment of dividends by AIC to The Allstate
flexibility.
Corporation is limited by Illinois insurance law to
As of December 31, 2023, we held $16.20 billion of formula amounts based on statutory net income and
cash, U.S. government and agencies fixed income statutory surplus, as well as the timing and amount of
securities, public equity securities and short-term dividends paid in the preceding twelve months. The
investments, which we would expect to be able to maximum amount of dividends that AIC will be able to
liquidate within one week. In addition, we regularly pay, without prior Illinois Department of Insurance
estimate how much of the total portfolio, which approval, at a given point in time in 2024, based on 10%
includes high quality corporate fixed income and of actual 2023 statutory surplus, is estimated at $1.20
municipal holdings, can be reasonably liquidated within billion, less dividends paid during the preceding twelve
one quarter. These estimates are subject to months measured at that point in time. For the year
considerable uncertainty associated with evolving ended December 31, 2023, the maximum amount of
market conditions. As of December 31, 2023, cash and dividends allowed to be paid by AIC was $1.22 billion.
estimated liquidity available within one quarter, under No dividends were paid in 2023. Notification and
normal market conditions and at current market prices, approval of intercompany lending activities are also
was $23.52 billion. required by the Illinois Department of Insurance for
those transactions that exceed formula amounts based
Certain remote events and circumstances could
on statutory admitted assets and statutory surplus.
constrain our liquidity. Those events and
circumstances include, for example, a catastrophe These holding company assets and subsidiary
resulting in extraordinary losses, a decrease in market dividends provide funds for the parent company’s fixed
liquidity, dramatic changes in security pricing, a charges and other corporate purposes.
cybersecurity breach, a downgrade in our senior long-
Intercompany dividends were paid in 2023, 2022
term debt ratings to non-investment grade status, or a
and 2021 between the following companies: AIC,
downgrade in AIC’s financial strength ratings. The
Allstate Insurance Holdings, LLC (“AIH”), the
rating agencies also consider the interdependence of
Corporation, ALIC, American Heritage Life Insurance
our individually rated entities; therefore, a rating
Company (“AHL”) and Allstate Financial Insurance
change in one entity could potentially affect the ratings
Holdings Corporation (“AFIHC”).
of other related entities.
Intercompany dividends
The Corporation is party to an Amended and
Restated Intercompany Liquidity Agreement (“Liquidity ($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Agreement”) with certain subsidiaries, which includes, AIC to AIH $ — $ 4,203 $ 5,946
but is not limited to AIC. The Liquidity Agreement AIH to the Corporation — 4,205 5,586
allows for short-term advances of funds to be made ALIC to AIC — — 1,642
between parties for liquidity and other general AHL to AFIHC 40 110 90
corporate purposes. The Liquidity Agreement does not
AFIHC to the Corporation 50 112 128
establish a commitment to advance funds on the part
of any party. AIC serves as a lender and borrower,
There were no capital contributions paid by the
certain other subsidiaries serve only as borrowers, and
Corporation to AIC in 2023, 2022 or 2021.
the Corporation serves only as a lender. The maximum
amount of potential funding under each of these Dividends may not be paid or declared on our
agreements is $1.00 billion. common stock and shares of common stock may not
be repurchased unless the full dividends for the latest
In addition to the Liquidity Agreement, the
completed dividend period on our preferred stock have
Corporation also has an intercompany loan agreement
been declared and paid or provided for.
with certain of its subsidiaries, which includes, but is
not limited to, AIC. The amount of intercompany loans The terms of our outstanding subordinated
available to the Corporation’s subsidiaries is at the debentures also prohibit us from declaring or paying
discretion of the Corporation. The maximum amount of any dividends or distributions on our common or
loans the Corporation will have outstanding to all its preferred stock or redeeming, purchasing, acquiring, or
eligible subsidiaries at any given point in time is limited making liquidation payments on our common stock or
to $1.00 billion. The Corporation may use commercial preferred stock if we have elected to defer interest
paper borrowings, bank lines of credit and securities payments on the subordinated debentures, subject to
lending to fund intercompany borrowings. certain limited exceptions. In 2023, we did not defer
interest payments on the subordinated debentures.
185 www.allstate.comCapital Resources and Liquidity
Additional resources to support liquidity are as Note 18 of the consolidated financial statements for
follows: further information.
• The Corporation and AIC have access to a Reserves for property and casualty insurance
$750 million unsecured revolving credit facility that claims and claims expense represent estimated
is available for short-term liquidity requirements. In amounts necessary to settle all outstanding claims,
November 2022, the maturity date of this facility including claims that have been IBNR as of the balance
was extended to November 2027 and the U.S. sheet date. Estimated timing of payments for reserves
dollar benchmark rate was amended from London is based on our historical experience and our
Interbank Offered Rate to Secured Overnight expectation of future payment patterns. The ultimate
Financing Rate. The facility is fully subscribed cost of losses may vary materially from recorded
among 11 lenders with the largest commitment amounts that are our best estimates. See Note 9 of the
being $95 million. The commitments of the lenders consolidated financial statements and Application of
are several and no lender is responsible for any Critical Accounting Estimates section of the MD&A for
other lender’s commitment if such lender fails to further information.
make a loan under the facility. This facility contains
Reserve for future policy benefits and
an increase provision that would allow up to an
contractholder funds We estimate the present value of
additional $500 million of borrowing, subject to the
cash payments to be made to contractholders and
lenders’ commitment. This facility has a financial
policyholders. We are currently making payments for
covenant requiring that we not exceed a 37.5%
contracts where the timing of a portion or all of the
debt to capitalization ratio as defined in the
payments has been determined by the contract.
agreement. This ratio was 23.4% as of December
Contracts such as voluntary accident and health
31, 2023. Although the right to borrow under the
insurance, interest-sensitive life and traditional life
facility is not subject to a minimum rating
insurance involve payment obligations where a portion
requirement, the costs of maintaining the facility
or all of the amount and timing of future payments is
and borrowing under it are based on the ratings of
uncertain. We have estimated the timing of payments
our senior unsecured, unguaranteed long-term
related to these contracts based on historical
debt. There were no borrowings under the credit
experience and our expectation of future payment
facility during 2023.
patterns. Uncertainties relating to these liabilities
• To cover short-term cash needs, the Corporation include mortality, morbidity, customer lapse and
has access to a commercial paper facility with a withdrawal activity, estimated additional deposits for
borrowing capacity limited to any undrawn credit interest-sensitive life contracts, and renewal premium
facility balance up to $750 million. for life policies, which may significantly impact both the
timing and amount of future payments. See Note 10 of
• As of December 31, 2023, there were no balances
the consolidated financial statements for further
outstanding for the credit facility or the
information.
commercial paper facility and therefore the
remaining borrowing capacity was $750 million Contractual commitmentsrepresent investment
under each facility. commitments such as private placements, limited
partnership interests and other loans. Limited
• The Corporation has access to a universal shelf
partnership interests are typically funded over the
registration statement with the Securities and
commitment period which is shorter than the
Exchange Commission that expires in 2024. We
contractual expiration date of the partnership and as a
can use this shelf registration to issue an
result, the actual timing of the funding may vary.
unspecified amount of debt securities, common
stock (including 638 million shares of treasury We have agreements in place for services we
stock as of December 31, 2023), preferred stock, conduct, generally at cost, between subsidiaries
depository shares, warrants, stock purchase relating to insurance, reinsurance, loans and
contracts, stock purchase units and securities of capitalization. All material intercompany transactions
trust subsidiaries. The specific terms of any have been appropriately eliminated in consolidation.
securities we issue under this registration Intercompany transactions among insurance
statement will be provided in the applicable subsidiaries and affiliates have been approved by the
prospectus supplements. appropriate departments of insurance as required.
Long-term contractual obligations For a more detailed discussion of our off-balance
sheet arrangements, see Note 7 of the consolidated
Defined benefit pension plans and other
financial statements.
postretirement benefit plans (“OPEB”) Pension plan
obligations within the next 12 months represent our
planned contributions to certain unfunded non-
qualified plans where the benefit obligation exceeds
the assets. Obligations beyond 12 months are
projected based on the average remaining service
period using the current underfunded status of the
plans. The OPEB plans’ obligations are estimated
based on the expected benefits to be paid. See
186 2023 Annual ReportEnterprise Risk and Return Management
Enterprise Risk and Return Management
Allstate is subject to significant risks as an insurer that are performed on an integrated, enterprise-wide
and a provider of protection products and services. basis, following our risk and return principles. Our legal
These risks are discussed in more detail in the Risk and capital structures are designed to manage capital
Factors section of this document. and solvency on a legal entity basis. Our risk-return
principles define how we operate and guide risk and
We regularly identify, measure, manage, monitor
return decision making. These principles state that our
and report all significant risks. Major categories of
priority is to maintain a strong foundation by
enterprise risk are strategic, insurance, investment,
protecting solvency, complying with laws and acting
financial, operational and culture.
with integrity. We strive to build strategic value and
Allstate manages these risks through an Enterprise optimize risk and return.
Risk and Return Management (“ERRM”) framework that
includes governance, processes, culture, and activities
Governance ERRM governance includes board management’s risk control framework and
oversight, an executive management committee, and cybersecurity program.
enterprise and market-facing business chief risk
• The ERRC directs ERRM activities by establishing
officers.
risk and return targets, determining economic
• The Allstate Corporation Board of Directors capital levels and monitoring integrated strategies
(“Allstate Board”) has overall responsibility for and actions from an enterprise risk and return
oversight of management’s design and perspective. The ERRC consists of Allstate’s chief
implementation of ERRM. executive officer, chief financial officer, chief risk
officer, chief legal officer and other senior leaders.
• The Risk and Return Committee (“RRC”) of the
Allstate Board oversees effectiveness of the ERRM • Other key committees work with the ERRC to
program, governance structure and risk-related direct ERRM activities, including the Operating
decision-making, while focusing on the Company’s Committee, the Operational Risk and Return
overall risk profile. Council, the Information Security Council, the
Internal Compliance and Control Committee, the
• The Audit Committee oversees the effectiveness
Environmental, Social, and Governance (“ESG”)
of internal controls over financial reporting,
disclosure controls and procedures as well as
187 www.allstate.comEnterprise Risk and Return Management
Steering Committee, liability governance operate within risk limits and for risk-return
committees, and investment committees. optimization, Allstate establishes risk limits and capital
targets specific to each business unit. Allstate’s risk
Key risks are assessed and reported through
management strategies adapt to changes in business
comprehensive ERRM reports prepared for senior
and market environments.
management and the RRC. The risk summary report
communicates the alignment of Allstate’s risk profile Process Our ERRM framework establishes a basis
with risk and return principles, while providing a for transparency and dialogue across the enterprise
perspective on risk positioning. Discussion promotes and for continuous learning by embedding our risk and
active engagement with management and the RRC. return management culture of identifying, assessing,
Internal controls over key risks are managed and managing, monitoring and reporting risks within the
reported to senior management and the Audit organization. Allstate designs business and enterprise
Committee of the Company through a semi-annual risk strategies that seek to optimize risk-adjusted returns
control dashboard. Annually, we review risks related to on capital. Risks are managed at both the legal entity
the strategic plan, operating plan and incentive and enterprise level.
compensation programs with the Allstate Board.
A summary of our process to manage each of our
Framework We apply risk and return principles major risk categories follows:
using an integrated ERRM framework that focuses on
Strategic risk and return managementaddresses
assessment, transparency and dialogue. Our
loss associated with inadequate or flawed business
framework provides a comprehensive view of risks and
planning or strategy setting, including product mix,
is used by senior management and business managers
mergers or acquisitions and market positioning, and
to drive risk-return based decisions. We continually
unexpected changes within the market or regulatory
validate and improve our ERRM practices by
environment in which Allstate operates. This includes
benchmarking and obtaining external perspectives.
reputational risk, which is the potential for negative
Management and the ERRC rely on internal and publicity regarding a company’s conduct or business
external perspectives to determine an appropriate practices to adversely impact its profitability,
level of target economic capital. Internal perspectives operations, or consumer base, or to require costly
include enterprise solvency and volatility assessments, litigation and other defensive measures.
review of key operating and model assumptions, and
We manage strategic risk in part through Allstate
management judgment. Sensitivity testing and
Board and senior management strategy reviews that
scenario analysis are used to gauge the robustness of
include risk and return assessment of our strategic
Allstate’s risk, capital and liquidity positions. Analysis of
plans and ongoing monitoring of strategic actions, key
extremely low frequency scenarios is used to assess
assumptions and the external competitive
the sufficiency of capital and contingency options
environment. Using the ERRM framework, Allstate
under worst-case outcomes, including unlikely but
designs strategies that seek to optimize risk-adjusted
impactful single events, as well as sequences of
returns associated with taking insurance, investment,
multiple tail events. External considerations include
and other business risks.
NAIC risk-based capital as well as S&P’s, Moody’s, and
A.M. Best’s capital adequacy measurement. Our Insurance risk and return management addresses
economic capital reflects management’s view of the fluctuations in the timing, frequency and severity of
aggregate level of capital necessary to satisfy benefits, expenses, and premiums relative to the
stakeholder interests, manage Allstate’s risk profile return expectations inclusive of systemic risk,
and maintain financial strength. The impact of strategic concentration of insurance exposures, policy terms,
initiatives on enterprise risk is evaluated through the reinsurance coverage, and claims handling practices.
economic capital framework.
Insurance risk is the potential for loss due to
The NAIC has adopted the Risk Management and adverse changes in actual or anticipated insurance
Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Model Act (“ORSA claims experience (including claims adjustment
Model Act”), which has been enacted by our insurance expenses), net of reinsurance, and lost future profits.
subsidiaries’ domiciliary states. The ORSA Model Act Insurance risk exposures include our operating results
requires that insurers maintain a risk management and financial condition, claims frequency and severity,
framework and conduct an internal own risk and and catastrophe and severe weather.
solvency assessment of the insurer’s material risks in
Insurance risk exposures are measured and
normal and stressed environments. Results of the
monitored with different approaches including:
assessment are filed annually.
• Stochastic methods: measure and monitor risks
Allstate’s risk appetite is measured through our
such as natural catastrophes and severe weather.
economic capital framework. The enterprise risk
We develop probabilistic estimates of risk based
appetite is cascaded into individual risk limits which
on our exposures, historical observed volatility or
set boundaries on the amount of risk we are willing to
industry-recognized models in the case of
accept from one specific risk category before
catastrophe risk.
escalating for further management discussion and
action. Risk limits are established based upon • Scenario analysis: measures and monitors risks
expected returns, volatility, potential tail losses and and estimated losses due to extreme low
impact on the enterprise portfolio. To effectively frequency events that include combined multiple
188 2023 Annual ReportEnterprise Risk and Return Management
event scenarios across risk categories and time Operational risk and return management
periods. addresses loss as a result of the failure of people,
Investment risk and return management processes, or systems. Operational risk exposures
addresses financial loss due to changes in the include human capital, privacy, regulatory compliance,
valuations of assets held in the Allstate investment ethics, fraud, system availability, cybersecurity, data
portfolio. Such losses may be caused by macro quality, disaster recovery and business continuity.
developments, such as changes to interest rates,
Operational risk is managed at the enterprise and
credit spreads and equity price levels, or could be
market-facing business levels, through an integrated
specific to individual investments in the portfolio.
Operational Risk and Return Management (“ORRM”)
These losses can encompass both daily market
framework that is anchored to the ERRM Learning
volatility and permanent impairments of capital due to
Loop, which depicts the five components of effective
credit defaults and equity write-downs.
risk management. The Learning Loop is a continual
Investment risk exposures include interest rate process which includes risk identification,
risk, credit spread risk, equity price risk and foreign measurement, management, monitoring, and reporting
currency exchange rate risk. of risk.
Investment risk exposures are measured, From time to time, we engage independent
monitored and limited in a number of ways including: advisers to assess and consult on operational risks. We
also perform internal risk reviews of the quality of our
• Sensitivity analysis: measures the impact from a operational risk program and identify opportunities to
unit change in a market risk input. strengthen our internal controls.
• Stochastic and probabilistic estimation of potential Culture risk and return managementaddresses
losses: combines portfolio risk exposures with the potential for loss of stakeholder value from a
historical or recent market volatilities and suboptimal work environment, missed opportunities, or
correlations to assess the potential range of future ineffective risk management practices. Allstate defines
investment results. organization culture as a self-sustaining system of
shared values, principles and priorities that shape
• Contributions to economic capital: measure the
beliefs, drive behavior and influence decision-making
percentage allocations of investment risk and risk
within an organization. Allstate’s approach is grounded
types within enterprise economic capital.
in its Risk and Return Principles and organized by Our
• Scenario analysis: measures material adverse Shared Purpose.
outcomes such as shock scenarios applied to
Culture is managed using a set of cultural risk
credit, public and private equity markets.
categories established as a basis for assessment and
Some of the stress scenarios are a combination of measurement, and the Learning Loop is applied to
multiple scenarios across risk categories and over ensure continuous improvement. Culture risk
multiple time periods, considering the effects of assessments, informed by both quantitative metrics
macroeconomic conditions. and qualitative judgment, are shared and discussed
with the ERRC, RRC and Compensation and Human
Financial risk and return management addresses
Capital Committee throughout the year. To strengthen
the risk of insufficient cash flows to meet corporate or
oversight, the Culture Risk and Return Management
policyholder needs, risk of inadequate aggregate
(“CRRM”) team partners with Human Resources and
capital or capital within any subsidiary, inability to
the broader organization to enhance the sophistication
access capital markets, credit risk that arises when an
of the CRRM framework, including the following key
external party fails to meet a contractual obligation
components:
such as reinsurance for ceded claims, or risk associated
with a business counterparty default. • Key risk categories, defining the most important
areas of culture to track and enhance.
We actively manage our capital and liquidity levels
in light of changing market, economic and business • Key risk indicators, reflecting the health of the
conditions. Our capital position, capital generation system, providing early warnings, and helping
capacity, and targeted risk profile provide strategic Allstate prioritize risk and return activities.
and financial flexibility.
• Governance, ensuring timely discussion,
We generally assess solvency on a statutory escalation, and prioritization of issues, as well as
accounting basis, but also consider holding company identification of opportunities.
capital and liquidity needs. Capital at the insurance
Many risk drivers impact more than one of these
companies significantly exceeds regulatory risk-based
key risk categories. Examples include risks related to
capital requirements and capital levels at the parent
inflation and ESG factors. Such risks are managed
holding company provide liquidity and financial
within processes listed above, but overall strategy is
flexibility to meet enterprise capital and liquidity
coordinated at the enterprise level, and holistic
requirements.
governance is provided by cross-functional
committees such as the ERRC.
189 www.allstate.comApplication of Critical Accounting Estimates
Application of Critical Accounting Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in other information, as applicable. Credit and liquidity
conformity with GAAP requires management to adopt spreads are typically implied from completed
accounting policies and make estimates and transactions and transactions of comparable securities.
assumptions that affect amounts reported in the Valuation service providers also use proprietary
consolidated financial statements. The most critical discounted cash flow models that are widely accepted
estimates, presented in the order they appear in the in the financial services industry and similar to those
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position, include used by other market participants to value the same
those used in determining: financial instruments. The valuation models take into
account, among other things, market observable
• Fair value of financial assets
information (as described above) as of the
• Impairment of fixed income securities with credit measurement date, as well as the specific attributes of
losses the security being valued including its term, interest
rate, credit rating, industry sector, and where
• Evaluation of goodwill
applicable, collateral quality and other issue or issuer
• Reserve for property and casualty insurance claims specific information. Executing valuation models
and claims expense estimation effectively requires seasoned professional judgment
and experience. For certain equity securities, valuation
• Pension and other postretirement plans net costs service providers provide market quotations for
and assumptions completed transactions on the measurement date. In
cases where market transactions or other market
In making these determinations, management
observable data is limited, the extent to which
makes subjective and complex judgments that
judgment is applied varies inversely with the
frequently require estimates about matters that are
availability of market observable information.
inherently uncertain. Many of these policies, estimates
and related judgments are common in the insurance For certain of our financial assets measured at fair
and financial services industries; others are specific to value, where our valuation service providers cannot
our businesses and operations. It is reasonably likely provide fair value determinations, we obtain a single
that changes in these estimates could occur from non-binding price quote from a broker familiar with the
period to period and result in a material impact on our security who, similar to our valuation service providers,
consolidated financial statements. may consider transactions or activity in similar
securities among other information. The brokers
A summary of each of these critical accounting
providing price quotes are generally from the
estimates follows. For a more detailed discussion of
brokerage divisions of financial institutions with market
the effect of these estimates on our consolidated
making, underwriting and distribution expertise
financial statements, and the judgments and
regarding the security subject to valuation.
assumptions related to these estimates, see the
referenced sections of this document. For a more The fair value of certain financial assets, including
detailed summary of our significant accounting privately placed corporate fixed income securities and
policies, see the notes to the consolidated financial free-standing derivatives, for which our valuation
statements. service providers or brokers do not provide fair value
determinations, is developed using valuation methods
Fair value of financial assets Fair value is defined
and models widely accepted in the financial services
as the price that would be received to sell an asset or
industry. Our internal pricing methods are primarily
paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
based on models using discounted cash flow
between market participants at the measurement
methodologies that develop a single best estimate of
date. We are responsible for the determination of fair
fair value. Our models generally incorporate inputs that
value of financial assets and the supporting
we believe are representative of inputs other market
assumptions and methodologies. We use independent
participants would use to determine fair value of the
third-party valuation service providers, broker quotes
same instruments, including yield curves, quoted
and internal pricing methods to determine fair values.
market prices of comparable securities or instruments,
We utilize only one single quote or price to value each
published credit spreads, and other applicable market
financial instrument in our financial statements.
data as well as instrument-specific characteristics that
Valuation service providers typically obtain data include, but are not limited to, coupon rates, expected
about market transactions and other key valuation cash flows, sector of the issuer, and call provisions.
model inputs from multiple sources and, through the Because judgment is required in developing the fair
use of proprietary models, produce valuation values of these financial assets, they may differ from
information in the form of a single fair value for the amount actually received to sell an asset in an
individual fixed income and other securities for which a orderly transaction between market participants at the
fair value has been requested under the terms of our measurement date. Moreover, the use of different
agreements. The inputs used by the valuation service valuation assumptions may have a material effect on
providers include, but are not limited to, market prices the financial assets’ fair values.
from recently completed transactions and transactions
For most of our financial assets measured at fair
of comparable securities, interest rate yield curves,
value, all significant inputs are based on or
credit spreads, liquidity spreads, currency rates, and
corroborated by market observable data, and
190 2023 Annual ReportApplication of Critical Accounting Estimates
significant management judgment does not affect the valuation service providers or brokers to other third-
periodic determination of fair value. The determination party valuation sources for selected securities. We
of fair value using discounted cash flow models perform ongoing price validation procedures such as
involves management judgment when significant back-testing of actual sales, which corroborate the
model inputs are not based on or corroborated by various inputs used in internal models to market
market observable data. However, where market observable data. When fair value determinations are
observable data is available, it takes precedence, and expected to be more variable, we validate them
as a result, no range of reasonably likely inputs exists through reviews by members of management who
from which the basis of a sensitivity analysis could be have relevant expertise and who are independent of
constructed. those charged with executing investment transactions.
We gain assurance that our financial assets are During periods of high volatility or market
appropriately valued through the execution of various disruption, we may perform an analysis to determine
processes and controls designed to ensure the overall whether there has been a significant decrease in the
reasonableness and consistent application of valuation volume and level of activity for the asset when
methodologies, including inputs and assumptions, and compared to normal market activity, and if so, whether
compliance with accounting standards. For fair values transactions may not be orderly. Among the indicators
received from third parties or internally estimated, our we consider in determining whether a significant
processes and controls are designed to ensure that the decrease in the volume and level of market activity for
valuation methodologies are appropriate and a specific asset has occurred include the level of new
consistently applied, the inputs and assumptions are issuances in the primary market, trading volume in the
reasonable and consistent with the objective of secondary market, level of credit spreads over
determining fair value, and the fair values are historical levels, bid-ask spread, and price consensuses
accurately recorded. For example, on a continuing among market participants and sources. If evidence
basis, we assess the reasonableness of individual fair indicates that prices are based on transactions that are
values that have stale security prices or that exceed not orderly, we place little, if any, weight on the
certain thresholds as compared to previous fair values transaction price and will estimate fair value using an
received from valuation service providers or brokers or internal model. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, we
derived from internal models. We perform procedures did not adjust fair values provided by our valuation
to understand and assess the methodologies, service providers or brokers or substitute them with an
processes and controls of valuation service providers. internal model for such securities.
In addition, we may validate the reasonableness of fair
values by comparing information obtained from
Fixed income, equity securities and short-term investments by source of fair value determination
December 31, 2023
Percent
($ in millions) Fair value to total
Fair value based on internal sources $ 424 0.8 %
Fair value based on external sources (1) 55,996 99.2
Total $ 56,420 100.0 %
(1) Includes $21 million that are valued using broker quotes and $354 million that are valued using quoted prices or quoted net asset
values from deal sponsors.
For additional detail on fair value measurements, appropriate authorityhas made the decision to sell or
see Note 6 of the consolidated financial statements. whether it is more likely than not we will be required to
sell the security before recovery of the amortized cost
Impairment of fixed income securities with credit
basis for reasons such as liquidity, contractual or
losses For fixed income securities classified as
regulatory purposes. If a security meets either of these
available-for-sale, the difference between amortized
criteria, any existing credit loss allowance would be
cost, net of credit loss allowance (“amortized cost, net”)
written-off against the amortized cost basis of the
and fair value, net of certain other items and deferred
asset along with any remaining unrealized losses, with
income taxes (as disclosed in Note 5 of the
the incremental losses recorded in earnings.
consolidated financial statements), is reported as a
component of AOCI on the Consolidated Statements of If we have not made the decision to sell the fixed
Financial Position and is not reflected in the operating income security and it is not more likely than not we
results of any period until reclassified to net income will be required to sell the fixed income security before
upon the consummation of a transaction with an recovery of its amortized cost basis, we evaluate
unrelated third party or when a credit loss allowance is whether we expect to receive cash flows sufficient to
recorded. We have a comprehensive portfolio recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security.
monitoring process to identify and evaluate each fixed We calculate the estimated recovery value based on
income security that may require a credit loss the best estimate of future cash flows considering past
allowance. events, current conditions and reasonable and
supportable forecasts. The estimated future cash flows
For each fixed income security in an unrealized loss
are discounted at the security’s current effective rate,
position, we assess whether management with the
and are compared to the amortized cost of the
191 www.allstate.comApplication of Critical Accounting Estimates
security. The determination of cash flow estimates is combination of widely accepted valuation techniques
inherently subjective, and methodologies may vary including a stock price and market capitalization
depending on facts and circumstances specific to the analysis, discounted cash flow (“DCF”) calculations and
security. All reasonably available information relevant an estimate of a business’s fair value using market to
to the collectability of the security are considered book multiples derived from peer company analysis.
when developing the estimate of cash flows expected The stock price and market capitalization analysis
to be collected. That information generally includes, takes into consideration the quoted market price of
but is not limited to, as applicable, the remaining our outstanding common stock and includes a control
payment terms of the security, prepayment speeds, premium, derived from relevant historical acquisition
the financial condition and future earnings potential of activity, in determining the estimated fair value of the
the issue or issuer, expected defaults, expected consolidated entity before allocating that fair value to
recoveries, the value of underlying collateral, individual reporting units. The DCF analysis utilizes
origination vintage year, geographic concentration of long term assumptions for revenues, investment
underlying collateral, available reserves or escrows, income, benefits, claims, other operating expenses and
current subordination levels, third-party guarantees income taxes to produce projections of both income
and other credit enhancements. Other information, and cash flows available for dividends that are present
such as industry analyst reports and forecasts, sector valued using the weighted average cost of capital.
credit ratings, financial condition of the bond insurer Market to book multiples represent the mean market
for insured fixed income securities, and other market to book multiple for selected peer companies with
data relevant to the realizability of contractual cash operations similar to each goodwill reporting unit to
flows, may also be considered. The estimated fair value which the multiple is applied. The outputs from these
of collateral will be used to estimate recovery value if methods are weighted based on the nature of the
we determine that the security is dependent on the business and the relative amount of market observable
liquidation of collateral for ultimate settlement. assumptions supporting the estimates. The computed
values are then weighted to reflect the fair value
If we do not expect to receive cash flows sufficient
estimate based on the specific attributes of each
to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the fixed
goodwill reporting unit.
income security, a credit loss allowance is recorded in
earnings for the shortfall in expected cash flows; Estimating the fair value of reporting units is a
however, the amortized cost, net of the credit loss subjective process that involves the use of significant
allowance, may not be lower than the fair value of the estimates by management. Changes in market inputs
security. The portion of the unrealized loss related to or other events impacting the fair value of these
factors other than credit remains classified in AOCI. If businesses, including discount rates, operating results,
we determine that the fixed income security does not investment returns, strategies and growth rate
have sufficient cash flow or other information to assumptions, among other factors, could result
estimate a recovery value for the security, we may in goodwill impairments, resulting in a charge to
conclude that the entire decline in fair value is deemed income. Certain of our goodwill reporting units are
to be credit related and the loss is recorded in comprised of a combination of legacy and acquired
earnings. businesses and as a result have substantial internally
generated and unrecognized intangibles and fair
When a security is sold or otherwise disposed or
values that significantly exceed their carrying values.
the security is deemed uncollectible and written off, we
remove amounts previously recognized in the credit The most significant assumptions utilized in the
loss allowance. Recoveries after write-offs are determination of the estimated fair value of the
recognized when received. Protection Services reporting unit are the earnings
growth rate and discount rate. The earnings growth
For additional detail on investment impairments,
rate in the DCF projection period is based on the
see Note 5 of the consolidated financial statements.
business strategy for the reporting unit.
Evaluation of goodwill Goodwill represents the
The discount rate, which is consistent with the
excess of amounts paid for acquiring businesses over
weighted average cost of capital expected by a market
the fair value of the net assets acquired, less any
participant, is based upon industry specific required
impairment of goodwill recognized. Goodwill is
rates of return, including consideration of both debt
recognized when acquired and allocated to reporting
and equity components of the capital structure. Our
units based on which unit is expected to benefit from
discount rate may be impacted by changes in the risk-
the synergies of the business combination. Our
free rate, cost of debt, equity risk premium and entity
goodwill reporting units are equivalent to our
specific risks.
reportable segments to which goodwill has been
assigned: Allstate Protection, Protection Services, and Changes in our growth assumptions, including the
Allstate Health and Benefits. risk of loss of key customers, or adverse changes in the
discount rates could result in a decline in fair value and
The goodwill balance was $3.50 billion at both
result in a goodwill impairment charge.
December 31, 2023 and 2022.
Upon acquisition, the purchase price of the
acquired business is assumed to be its fair value.
Subsequently, we estimate the fair value of our
businesses in each goodwill reporting unit, utilizing a
192 2023 Annual ReportApplication of Critical Accounting Estimates
Reserve for property and casualty insurance classifications are used to prepare estimates of
claims and claims expenseestimation Reserves are required reserves for payments to be made in the
established to provide for the estimated costs of future. The key assumptions affecting our reserve
paying claims and claims expenses under insurance estimates comprise data elements including claim
policies we have issued. These reserves are an counts, paid losses, case reserves, and development
estimate of amounts necessary to settle all factors calculated with this data.
outstanding claims, including estimates of all expenses
In the chain ladder estimation technique, a ratio
associated with processing and settling incurred claims
(development factor) is calculated which compares
and IBNR, less the amount of paid losses, as of the
current period results to results in the prior period for
financial statement date. Total reserves comprise three
each accident year. The effects of inflation are
major components: case (established by claim
implicitly considered in the reserving process, as
adjusters), supplemental, and IBNR. Estimating the
development factors use historic data that
ultimate cost of claims and claims expenses is an
incorporates inflation from recent prior periods in
inherently uncertain and complex process involving a
estimating future loss costs. The development factor
high degree of judgment and is subject to the
estimation methodology may require modification
evaluation of numerous variables. Underwriting results
when data changes due to changing claim reporting
are significantly influenced by estimates of property
practices, changing claim settlement patterns, external
and casualty insurance claims and claims expense
regulatory or financial influences, or contractual
reserves.
coverage changes. Changes in such items and inflation
Reserves are established for each business can result in increased variability in loss costs and
segment and line of business, independently of reserve estimates. Actuarial judgment is then applied
business segment management. The significant lines to develop a best estimate of gross ultimate losses.
of business are auto, homeowners, and other personal These developments are discussed further in the loss
lines for Allstate Protection, and asbestos, ratio disclosures within the Allstate Protection
environmental, and other run-off lines for Run-off Segment and the Property and Casualty Insurance
Property-Liability. Allstate Protection’s current period Claims and Claims Expense Reserves sections of the
claims are typically reported promptly with relatively MD&A. See the Run-off Property-Liability reserve
little reporting lag between the date of occurrence and estimates section for specific disclosures of industry
the date the loss is reported. Auto and homeowners and actuarial best practices for this segment.
liability losses generally take an average of about two
How reserve estimates are established and
years to settle, while auto physical damage,
updated Reserve estimates are developed at a
homeowners property and other personal lines
detailed level, and the results are aggregated to form a
generally have an average settlement time of less than
consolidated reserve estimate. The detailed estimates
one year. Liability losses, especially those involving
include each line of insurance, major components of
litigation, can take several years to resolve. Run-off
losses (such as coverages and perils), major states or
Property-Liability involves long-tail losses, such as
groups of states and for reported losses and IBNR.
those related to asbestos and environmental claims,
Development factors are calculated for data elements
which often involve substantial reporting lags and
such as claim counts reported and settled, paid losses,
extended times to settle.
and paid losses combined with case reserves. The
We update most of our reserve estimates quarterly historical development patterns for these data
and as new data and information become available or elements are used to calculate reserve estimates.
as events emerge that may affect the resolution of Based on this review, our best estimate of required
unsettled claims. Changes in prior reserve estimates reserves is recorded.
(reserve reestimates), which may be material, are
Reserves are reestimated quarterly and
determined by comparing updated estimates of
periodically throughout the year, by combining
ultimate losses to prior estimates, with the differences
historical results with current actual results to calculate
recorded as property and casualty insurance claims
new development factors. This process continuously
and claims expense in the Consolidated Statements of
incorporates the historic and latest actual trends, and
Operations in the period such changes are determined.
other underlying changes in the data elements used to
The actuarial methods used to develop reserve calculate reserve estimates. New development factors
estimates Reserve estimates are derived by using are likely to differ from previous development factors
several different actuarial estimation methods that are used in prior reserve estimates because actual results
variations on one primary actuarial technique. The occur differently than the assumptions contained in
actuarial technique is known as a “chain ladder” the previous development factor calculations. When
estimation process in which historical loss patterns are actual development of these data elements is different
applied to actual paid losses and reported losses (paid than the historical development pattern used in a prior
losses plus individual case reserves established by period reserve estimate, a new reserve is determined.
claim adjusters) for an accident year or a report year to The difference between indicated reserves based on
create an estimate of how losses are likely to develop new reserve estimates and recorded reserves (the
over time. An accident year refers to classifying claims previous estimate) is the amount of reserve reestimate.
based on the year in which the claims occurred. A This amount, which could be material and vary
report year refers to classifying claims based on the significantly from period to period is recognized as an
year in which the claims are reported. Both increase or decrease in Property and casualty
193 www.allstate.comApplication of Critical Accounting Estimates
insurance claims and claims expense in the in the Property and Casualty Insurance Claims and
Consolidated Statements of Operations. A more Claims Expense Reserves section of the MD&A.
detailed discussion of reserve reestimates is presented
Net claims and claims expense reserves by segment and line of business
As of December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Allstate Protection
Auto $ 21,286 $ 19,365 $ 16,078
Homeowners 4,754 3,520 2,731
Other lines (1) 3,929 3,991 3,315
Total Allstate Protection 29,969 26,876 22,124
Run-off Property-Liability
Asbestos 804 811 828
Environmental 267 267 226
Other run-off lines 373 373 367
Total Run-off Property-Liability 1,444 1,451 1,421
Total Protection Services 49 38 36
Total net claims and claims expense reserves $ 31,462 $ 28,365 $ 23,581
(1) Includes the unamortized fair value adjustment related to the acquisition of National General.
Reserve reestimates • Supply chain disruptions and labor shortages, higher
used car prices, labor and part cost increases,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
unemployment levels, changes in commuting activity
Reserve reestimates, after-
and driving behavior have and may continue to lead
tax (1) $ 434 $ 1,375 $ 96
to historical development trends being less
Percentage impact on net
predictive of future loss development, potentially
income (loss) applicable to
creating additional reserve variability.
common shareholders -
favorable (unfavorable) NM (98.6) % (6.4) %
• If a legal change is expected to have a significant
(1) Favorable reserve reestimates are shown in parentheses. impact on the development of claim severity for a
coverage which is part of a particular line of
3-year average of net reserve reestimates as a insurance in a specific state, judgment is applied to
percentage of total reserves for each segment (1) (2) determine appropriate development factors that will
most accurately reflect the expected impact on that
2023
specific estimate.
Allstate Protection 2.6 %
Run-off Property-Liability 7.6 • A change in economic conditions is expected to
Protection Services (4.9) affect the cost of repairs to damaged autos or
property for a particular line, coverage, or state,
(1) Favorable reserve reestimates are shown in parentheses. actuarial judgment is applied to determine
(2) Each of these results is consistent within a reasonable appropriate development factors to use in the
actuarial tolerance for the respective businesses. reserve estimate that will most accurately reflect the
expected impacts on severity development.
Allstate Protection reserve estimate
Case and supplemental reserves
Factors affecting reserve estimates Reserve
estimates are developed based on the processes and • As claims are reported, for certain liability claims of
historical development trends described above. These sufficient size and complexity, the field adjusting
estimates are considered in conjunction with known staff establishes case reserve estimates of ultimate
facts and interpretations of circumstances and factors cost, based on their assessment of facts and
including our experience with similar cases, actual circumstances related to each individual claim.
claims paid, historical trends involving claim payment
patterns and pending levels of unpaid claims, loss • For other claims which occur in large volumes and
management programs, product mix and contractual settle in a relatively short time frame, it is not
terms, changes in laws and regulations, judicial practical or efficient to set case reserves for each
decisions, and economic conditions. When we claim, and a statistical case reserve is set for these
experience changes of the type previously mentioned, claims based on estimation techniques described
we apply actuarial judgment in the determination and above.
selection of development factors considered more
• In the normal course of business, we may also
reflective of the new trends, such as combining shorter
supplement our claims processes by utilizing third-
or longer periods of historical results with current
party adjusters, appraisers, engineers, inspectors,
actual results to produce development factors used to
and other professionals and information sources to
reestimate our reserves. For example:
assess and settle catastrophe and non-catastrophe
related claims.
194 2023 Annual ReportApplication of Critical Accounting Estimates
• Historically, the case reserves set by the field reserves are reestimated using statistical actuarial
adjusting staff have not proven to be an entirely processes to reflect the impact actual loss trends have
accurate estimate of the ultimate cost of claims. To on development factors incorporated into the actuarial
provide for this, a development reserve is estimated estimation processes.
using the processes described above and allocated
Causes of reserve estimate uncertainty Since
to pending claims as a supplement to case reserves.
reserves are estimates of unpaid portions of claims and
• Typically, the case, including statistical case, and claims expenses for claims that have occurred,
supplemental development reserves comprise about including IBNR losses, the establishment of
90% of total reserves. appropriate reserves, including reserves for
catastrophe losses, requires regular reevaluation and
Incurred but not reported (“IBNR”)
refinement of estimates to determine our ultimate loss
• IBNR can be a small percentage of reserves for estimate.
relatively short-term claims, such as auto physical
At each reporting date, the highest degree of
damage claims, or a large percentage of reserves for
uncertainty in estimates for most of our losses from
claims that have uncertain payout requirements over
ongoing businesses arise from claims remaining to be
a long period of time, such as auto injury and MCCA
settled for the current accident year and the most
claims.
recent preceding accident year. The greatest degree of
• Comprises about 10% of total reserves. uncertainty exists in the current accident year because
the current accident year contains the greatest
Generally, the initial reserves for a new accident
proportion of losses that have not been reported or
year are established based on actual claim frequency
settled as well as heightened uncertainty for claims
and severity assumptions for different business
that involve litigation or take longer to settle during
segments, lines and coverages based on historical
periods of rapidly increasing loss costs, but must be
relationships to relevant inflation indicators. Reserves
estimated as of the current reporting date. Most of
for prior accident years are statistically determined
these losses relate to damaged property such as
using processes described above. Changes in auto
automobiles and homes, and medical care for injuries
claim frequency may result from changes in mix of
from accidents. During the first year after the end of an
business, driving behaviors, miles driven or other
accident year, a large portion of the total losses for
macroeconomic factors. Changes in auto current year
that accident year are settled. When accident year
claim severity are generally influenced by inflation in
losses paid through the end of the first year following
the medical and auto repair sectors of the economy,
the initial accident year are incorporated into updated
the effectiveness and efficiency of our claim
actuarial estimates, the trends inherent in the
settlements and changes in mix of claim type. Injury
settlement of claims emerge more clearly. After the
claims are affected largely by medical inflation,
second year, the losses that we pay for an accident
treatment trends, attorney representation and
year typically relate to claims that are more difficult to
litigation costs while physical damage claims are
settle, such as those involving serious injuries or
affected largely by auto repair cost inflation, used car
litigation. Private passenger auto insurance provides a
prices, length of claim resolution and the timing of
good illustration of the uncertainty of future loss
receipt of third-party carrier claims.
estimates: our typical annual percentage payout of
We mitigate these effects through various loss reserves remaining at December 31 for an accident
management programs. For auto physical damage year is approximately 50% in the first year after the end
coverages, we monitor our rate of increase in average of the accident year, 20% in the second year, 10% in the
cost per claim against the auto maintenance, repair, third year, 10% in the fourth year, and the remaining
parts and equipment price indices. We believe our 10% thereafter.
claim settlement initiatives, such as improvements to
Reserves for catastrophe losses Catastrophe
the claim review and settlement process, the use of
lossesare an inherent risk of the property and casualty
special investigative units to detect fraud and handle
insurance industry that have contributed, and will
suspect claims, litigation management and defense
continue to contribute, to potentially material year-to-
strategies, as well as various other loss management
year fluctuations in our results of operations and
initiatives underway, contribute to the mitigation of
financial position. We define a “catastrophe” as an
injury and physical damage severity trends.
event that produces pre-tax losses before reinsurance
Changes in homeowners current year claim in excess of $1 million and involves multiple first party
severity are generally influenced by inflation in the cost policyholders, or a winter weather event that produces
of building materials, the cost of construction and a number of claims in excess of a preset, per-event
property repair services, the cost of replacing home threshold of average claims in a specific area, occurring
furnishings and other contents, the types of claims that within a certain amount of time following the event.
qualify for coverage, deductibles, other economic and Catastrophes are caused by various natural events
environmental factors and the effectiveness of our including high winds, winter storms and freezes,
claim practices. tornadoes, hailstorms, wildfires, tropical storms,
tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes and volcanoes.
As loss experience for the current year develops
for each type of loss, it is monitored relative to initial We are also exposed to man-made catastrophic
assumptions until it is judged to have sufficient events, such as certain types of terrorism, civil unrest,
statistical credibility. From that point in time forward, wildfires or industrial accidents. The nature and level of
195 www.allstate.comApplication of Critical Accounting Estimates
catastrophes in any period cannot be reliably with case reserves separately for injury losses, auto
predicted. physical damage losses, and homeowners insurance
losses excluding catastrophe losses. Based on the
The estimation of claims and claims expense
combined historical variability of the development
reserves for catastrophe losses also comprises
factors calculated for these data elements, an estimate
estimates of losses from reported claims and IBNR,
of the standard error or standard deviation around
primarily for damage to property. In general, our
these reserve estimates is calculated within each
estimates for catastrophe reserves are based on claim
accident year for the last twelve years for each type of
adjuster inspections and the application of historical
loss. The variability of these reserve estimates within
loss development factors as described above.
one standard deviation of the mean (a measure of
However, depending on the nature of the catastrophe,
frequency of dispersion often viewed to be an
the estimation process can be further complicated. For
acceptable level of accuracy) is believed by
example, for hurricanes, complications could include
management to represent a reasonable and
the inability of insureds to promptly report losses,
statistically probable measure of potential variability.
limitations placed on claims adjusting staff affecting
Based on our products and coverages, historical
their ability to inspect losses, determining whether
experience, the statistical credibility of our extensive
losses are covered by our homeowners policy
data and stochastic modeling of actuarial chain ladder
(generally for damage caused by wind or wind driven
methodologies used to develop reserve estimates, we
rain) or specifically excluded coverage caused by flood,
have derived the potential standard deviation and
exposure to mold damage, and the effects of
impact to net income to our Allstate Protection
numerous other considerations, including the timing of
reserves, excluding catastrophe losses, as shown
a catastrophe in relation to other events, such as at or
below. Catastrophe lossesare also an inherent risk of
near the end of a financial reporting period, which can
the property and casualty insurance industry that have
affect the availability of information needed to
contributed, and will continue to contribute, to
estimate reserves for that reporting period. In these
potentially material year-to-year fluctuations in our
situations, we may need to adapt our practices to
results of operations and financial position.
accommodate these circumstances in order to
determine a best estimate of our losses from a Reserve estimate variability
catastrophe. For example, to complete estimates for
December 31, 2023
certain areas affected by catastrophes not yet
Net
inspected by our claims adjusting staff, or where we
income
believed our historical loss development factors were Carried Standard effect,
not predictive, we rely on analysis of actual claim ($ in millions) reserves (1) deviation pre-tax
notices received compared to total PIF, as well as
Auto insurance -
visual, governmental and third-party information, liability coverage $ 27,730 7.0 % $ 1,941
including aerial photos, using satellites, aircrafts and
Auto insurance -
drones, area observations, and data on wind speed and
physical damage
flood depth to the extent available. coverage 846 14.0 118
Potential variability in reserve estimates Reserve Homeowners
estimates, by their nature, are very complex to insurance 3,342 8.5 284
determine, subject to significant judgment, and
(1) Excludes reserves related to catastrophes.
represent approximations rather than an exact
determination for each outstanding claim, including Although this evaluation reflects most reasonably
claims incurred but not reported. Accordingly, as actual likely outcomes, it is possible the final outcome may fall
claims, paid losses, and case reserve results emerge, below or above these amounts. Historical variability of
our estimate of the ultimate cost to settle will differ reserve estimates is reported in the Property and
from previous estimates. Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense
Reserves section of the MD&A.
The reserve liability recorded in the Consolidated
Statements of Financial Position represents the The Company regularly updates its reserve
aggregation of numerous analyses by each business estimates as new information becomes available and
segment, line of insurance, major types of losses (such as events unfold that may affect the resolution of
as coverages and perils), and individual states or unsettled claims. Changes in reserve estimates, which
groups of states for reported losses and IBNR. Because may be material, are reported in property and casualty
of this detailed approach to our reserve analysis, there insurance claims and claims expense in the
is not a single set of assumptions that determines our Consolidated Statements of Operations in the period
reserve estimates at the consolidated level or that such changes are determined. Management believes
management believes can produce a statistically that the reserve for property and casualty insurance
credible or reliable actuarial reserve range that would claims and claims expense, net of recoverables, is
be meaningful. appropriately established in the aggregate and
adequate to cover the ultimate net cost of reported
To develop a statistical indication of potential
and unreported claims arising from losses which had
reserve variability within reasonably likely possible
occurred by the date of the Consolidated Statements
outcomes, an actuarial technique (stochastic modeling)
of Financial Position based on available facts, laws and
is applied to the countrywide consolidated data
regulations.
elements for paid losses and paid losses combined
196 2023 Annual ReportApplication of Critical Accounting Estimates
Reserves for Michigan and New Jersey unlimited result we believe that no other estimate is better than
personal injury protection Claims and claims expense our recorded amount. Due to the uncertainties
reserves include reserves for Michigan mandatory involved, the ultimate cost of losses may vary
unlimited personal injury protection coverage to materially from recorded amounts, which are based on
insureds involved in qualifying motor vehicle accidents. our best estimates.
The administration of this program is through the
Run-off Property-Liability reserve estimates
MCCA, a state-mandated, non-profit association of
which all insurers actively writing automobile coverage Characteristics of Run-off exposure Our exposure
in Michigan are members. to asbestos, environmental and other run-off claims
arise principally from assumed reinsurance coverage
The process employed to estimate MCCA covered
written during the 1960s through the mid-1980s,
losses involves a number of activities including the
including reinsurance on primary insurance written on
comprehensive review and interpretation of MCCA
large U.S. companies, and from direct excess
actuarial reports, other MCCA members’ reports and
commercial insurance written from 1972 through 1985,
our personal injury protection loss trends which have
including substantial excess general liability coverages
increased in severity over time. A significant portion of
on large U.S. companies. Additional exposure stems
incurred claim reserves can be attributed to a small
from direct primary commercial insurance written
number of catastrophic claims and thus a large portion
during the 1960s through the mid-1980s. Asbestos
of the recoverable is similarly concentrated. We
claims relate primarily to bodily injuries asserted by
conduct comprehensive claim file reviews to develop
claimants who were exposed to asbestos or products
case reserve type estimates of specific claims, which
containing asbestos. Environmental claims relate
inform our view of future claim development and
primarily to pollution and related clean-up costs. Other
longevity of claimants. Each year, we update the
run-off claims exposures primarily relate to general
actuarial estimate of our ultimate reserves and
liability and product liability mass tort claims, such as
recoverables. We report our paid and unpaid claims
those for medical devices and other products, workers’
based on MCCA requirements. The MCCA develops its
compensation claims and claims for various other
own reserving estimates based on its own reserve
coverage exposures other than asbestos and
methodologies, which may not align with our
environmental.
estimations. The MCCA does not provide member
companies with its estimate of a company’s claim In 1986, the general liability policy form used by us
costs. and others in the property and casualty industry was
amended to introduce an “absolute pollution
We provide similar personal injury protection
exclusion,” which excluded coverage for environmental
coverage in New Jersey for auto policies issued or
damage claims, and to add an asbestos exclusion.
renewed in New Jersey prior to 1991 that is
Most general liability policies issued prior to 1987
administered by PLIGA. We use similar actuarial
contain annual aggregate limits for product liability
estimating techniques as for the MCCA exposures to
coverage. General liability policies issued in 1987 and
estimate loss reserves for unlimited personal injury
thereafter contain annual aggregate limits for product
protection coverage for policies covered by PLIGA.
liability coverage and annual aggregate limits for all
Unlimited coverage was not offered after 1991;
coverages. Our experience to date is that these policy
therefore, no new claimants are being added.
form changes have limited the extent of our exposure
Reserve estimates are confidential and proprietary to environmental and asbestos claim risks.
and by their nature are very complex to determine and
Our exposure to liability for asbestos,
subject to significant judgments. Reserve estimates do
environmental and other run-off claims losses
not represent an exact determination for each
manifests differently depending on whether it arises
outstanding claim. Claims may be subject to litigation.
from assumed reinsurance coverage, direct excess
As actual claims, paid losses and case reserve results
commercial insurance or direct primary commercial
emerge, our estimate of the ultimate cost to settle may
insurance.
be materially greater or less than previously estimated
amounts. Direct excess commercial insurance and
reinsurance involve coverage written by us for specific
For additional information related to
layers of protection above retentions and other
indemnification recoverables, see Form 10-K Item 1 -
insurance plans and largely has resulted in asbestos,
Regulation, Indemnification Programs and Note 11 of
environmental and mass tort claims. The nature of
the consolidated financial statements.
excess coverage and reinsurance provided to other
Adequacy of reserve estimates We believe our net insurers limits our exposure to loss to specific layers of
claims and claims expense reserves are appropriately protection in excess of policyholder retention on their
established based on available methodologies, facts, primary insurance plans. Our exposure is further
laws and regulations. Additionally, we rely on historical limited by the significant reinsurance that we had
claims experience to inform the level of the recorded purchased on our direct excess business.
reserve. We calculate and record a single best reserve
Our assumed reinsurance business involved
estimate, in conformance with generally accepted
writing generally small participations in other insurers’
actuarial standards and practices, for each line of
reinsurance programs. The reinsured losses in which
insurance, its components (coverages and perils) and
we participate may be a proportion of all eligible losses
state, for reported losses and for IBNR losses, and as a
or eligible losses in excess of defined retentions. Of the
197 www.allstate.comApplication of Critical Accounting Estimates
majority of our assumed reinsurance exposure, characteristics of specific individual coverage
approximately 85%, is for excess of loss coverage, while exposures.
the remaining 15% is for pro-rata coverage.
Potential reserve estimate variability Establishing
Our direct primary commercial insurance business net loss reserves for asbestos, environmental and
comprises a cross section of policyholders engaged in other run-off claims is subject to uncertainties that are
many diverse business sectors throughout the country much greater than those presented by other types of
and did not include coverage to large asbestos property and casualty claims. Among the
manufacturers. complications are lack of historical data, long reporting
delays, uncertainty as to the number and identity of
How reserve estimates are established and
insureds with potential exposure and unresolved legal
updated We conduct an annual review in the third
issues regarding policy coverage; unresolved legal
quarter to evaluate, establish and adjust as necessary,
issues regarding the determination, availability and
asbestos, environmental and other run-off claims
timing of exhaustion of policy limits; plaintiffs’ evolving
reserves. Changes to reserves are recorded in the
and expanding theories of liability; availability and
reporting period in which they are determined. Using
collectability of recoveries from reinsurance;
established industry and actuarial best practices and
retrospectively determined premiums and other
assuming no change in the regulatory or economic
contractual agreements; estimates of the extent and
environment, this detailed and comprehensive
timing of any contractual liability; the impact of
methodology determines asbestos reserves based on
bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos
assessments of the characteristics of exposure (i.e.
producers and other asbestos defendants; and other
claim activity, potential liability, jurisdiction, products
uncertainties. There are also complex legal issues
versus non-products exposure) presented by individual
concerning the interpretation of various insurance
policyholders, and determines environmental reserves
policy provisions and whether those losses are
based on assessments of the characteristics of
covered, or were ever intended to be covered, and
exposure (i.e. environmental damages, respective
could be recoverable through retrospectively
shares of liability of potentially responsible parties,
determined premium, reinsurance or other contractual
appropriateness and cost of remediation) to pollution
agreements. Courts have reached different and
and related clean-up costs. The number and cost of
sometimes inconsistent conclusions as to when losses
these claims are affected by advertising by trial
are deemed to have occurred and which policies
lawyers seeking asbestos plaintiffs, and entities with
provide coverage; what types of losses are covered;
asbestos exposure seeking bankruptcy protection as a
whether there is an insurer obligation to defend; how
result of asbestos liabilities, initially causing a delay in
policy limits are determined; how policy exclusions and
the reporting of claims, often followed by an
conditions are applied and interpreted; and whether
acceleration and an increase in claims and claims
clean-up costs represent insured property damage.
expenses as settlements occur.
Our reserves for asbestos, environmental and other
After evaluating our insureds’ probable liabilities run-off exposures could be affected by tort reform,
for asbestos, environmental and other run-off claims, class action litigation, and other potential legislation
we evaluate our insureds’ coverage programs for such and judicial decisions. Environmental exposures could
claims. We consider our insureds’ total available also be affected by a change in the existing federal
insurance coverage, including the coverage we issued. Superfund law and similar state statutes. There can be
We also consider relevant judicial interpretations of no assurance that any reform legislation will be
policy language and applicable coverage defenses or enacted or that any such legislation will provide for a
determinations, if any. fair, effective and cost-efficient system for settlement
of asbestos or environmental claims. We believe these
Evaluation of both the insureds’ estimated
issues are not likely to be resolved in the near future,
liabilities and our exposure to the insureds depends
and the ultimate costs may vary materially from the
heavily on an analysis of the relevant legal issues and
amounts currently recorded resulting in material
litigation environment. This analysis is conducted by
changes in loss reserves. Historical variability of
our specialized claims adjusting staff and legal counsel.
reserve estimates is demonstrated in the Property and
Based on these evaluations, case reserves are
Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense
established by claims adjusting staff and actuarial
Reserves section of the MD&A.
analysis is employed to develop an IBNR reserve, which
includes estimated potential reserve development and Adequacy of reserve estimates Management
claims that have occurred but have not been reported. believes its net loss reserves for asbestos,
As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, IBNR was 55.7% environmental and other run-off claims exposures are
and 55.9%, respectively, of combined net asbestos and appropriately established based on available facts,
environmental reserves. laws, regulations, and assessments of other pertinent
factors and characteristics of exposure (i.e. claim
For both asbestos and environmental reserves, we
activity, potential liability, jurisdiction, products versus
also evaluate our historical direct net loss and expense
non-products exposure) presented by individual
paid and incurred experience to assess any emerging
policyholders, assuming no change in the legal,
trends, fluctuations or characteristics suggested by the
legislative or economic environment. Due to the
aggregate paid and incurred activity. Other run-off
uncertainties and factors described above,
claims reserves are based on considerations similar to
management believes it is not practicable to develop a
those described above, as they relate to the
198 2023 Annual ReportApplication of Critical Accounting Estimates
meaningful range for any such additional net loss investment income and, if applicable, restructuring and
reserves that may be required. related charges and 2) remeasurement gains and
losses comprised of changes in actuarial assumptions
For further discussion of these estimates and
and the difference between actual and expected
quantification of the impact of reserve estimates,
returns on plan assets which are recognized
reserve reestimates and assumptions, see Note 9 and
immediately in earnings as part of pension and other
Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements and
postretirement remeasurement gains and losses.
the Property and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims
Expense Reserves section of the MD&A. We recognize expected returns on plan assets
using an unadjusted fair value method. Our policy is to
Pension and other postretirement plans net
remeasure our pension and postretirement plans on a
costs and assumptions Our defined benefit pension
quarterly basis. We immediately recognize the
plans cover most U.S. employees. Benefits are
remeasurement of the projected benefit obligation and
provided to plan participants based on a cash balance
plan assets in earnings as it provides greater
formula. Certain participants also have a significant
transparency of our economic obligations in
portion of their benefits attributable to a former final
accounting results and better aligns the recognition of
average pay formula. 79% of the projected benefit
the effects of economic and interest rate changes on
obligation (“PBO”) of our primary qualified employee
pension and other postretirement plan assets and
plan is related to the former final average pay formula.
liabilities in the year in which the gains and losses are
See Note 18 of the consolidated financial statements
incurred.
for a discussion of these plans and their effect on the
consolidated financial statements. Differences in actual experience and changes in
other assumptions affect our pension and other
Our pension and other postretirement benefit
postretirement obligations and expenses. Differences
costs are calculated using various actuarial
between expected and actual returns on plan assets
assumptions and methodologies. These assumptions
affect remeasurement gains and losses. The primary
include discount rates, health care cost trend rates,
factors contributing to pension and postretirement
inflation, expected returns on plan assets, mortality
remeasurement gains and losses are: 1) changes in the
and other factors. The assumptions utilized in
discount rate used to value pension and
recording the obligations under our pension plans
postretirement obligations as of the measurement
represent our best estimates and we believe they are
date; 2) differences between the expected and the
reasonable based on information as to historical
actual return on plan assets; 3) changes in
experience and performance as well as other factors
demographic assumptions, including mortality and
that might cause future expectations to differ from
participant experience; and 4) changes in lump sum
past trends.
interest rates used to value pension obligations as of
Net costs for our defined benefit plans are the measurement date.
recognized on the Consolidated Statements of
Pension and other postretirement service cost,
Operations and consist of two elements: 1) costs
interest cost, expected return on plan assets and
comprised of service and interest costs, expected
amortization of prior service credits are allocated to
return of plan assets, amortization of prior service
our reportable segments. The pension and other
credit and curtailment gains and losses which are
postretirement remeasurement gains and losses are
reported in property and casualty claims and claims
reported in the Corporate and Other segment.
expense, operating costs and expenses, net
Pension and postretirement benefits remeasurement gains and losses
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Remeasurement of projected benefit obligation (gains) losses:
Discount rate $ 104 $ (1,268) $ (285)
Other assumptions 17 (176) (40)
Remeasurement of plan assets (gains) losses (112) 1,560 (319)
Remeasurement (gains) losses $ 9 $ 116 $ (644)
Impact of assumption changes to net cost for other assumptions, primarily related to an increase in
pension and other postretirement plans the long-term lump sum interest rate.
Remeasurement losses in 2023 primarily related to
The discount rate is based on rates at which
losses on the remeasurement of the projected benefit
expected pension benefits attributable to past
obligation driven by a decrease in the liability discount
employee service could effectively be settled on a
rate, partially offset by gains due to favorable asset
present value basis at the measurement date. We
performance compared to expected return on plan
develop the assumed discount rate by utilizing the
assets. Remeasurement losses in 2022 primarily
weighted average yield of a theoretical dedicated
related to unfavorable asset performance compared to
portfolio derived from non-callable bonds and callable
the expected return on plan assets, partially offset by a
bonds with a make-whole provision available in the
reduction in the projected benefit obligation due to an
Bloomberg corporate bond universe having ratings of
increase in the liability discount rate and changes in
at least “AA” by S&P or at least “Aa” by Moody’s on the
199 www.allstate.comApplication of Critical Accounting Estimates
measurement date with cash flows that match primarily due to positive equity returns and higher
expected plan benefit requirements. Significant fixed income valuations from lower interest rates and
changes in discount rates, such as those caused by tighter credit spreads. In 2022, the actual return on
changes in the credit spreads, yield curve, the mix of plan assets was lower than the expected return
bonds available in the market, the duration of selected primarily due to higher interest rates, widening credit
bonds and expected benefit payments, may result in spreads and weak equity market performance.
volatility in pension cost. The weighted average
We complete periodic evaluations of demographic
discount rate used to measure the benefit obligation
information and historical experience that affects our
decreased to 5.35% at December 31, 2023 compared to
pension and other postretirement obligations to
5.64% at December 31, 2022, resulting in
identify any required changes to long-term actuarial
remeasurement losses for 2023.
assumptions and methodologies. Demographic
The expected long-term rate of return on plan assumptions affect both our pension and
assets reflects the average rate of earnings expected postretirement plans and include elements such as
on plan assets. While this rate reflects long-term retirement rates and participation rates in our
assumptions and is consistent with long-term historical postretirement programs, among other factors.
returns, sustained changes in the market or changes in
These actuarial assumption updates affect our
the mix of plan assets may lead to revisions in the
pension and other postretirement obligations and are
assumed long-term rate of return on plan assets that
incorporated into our best estimates of these
may result in variability of pension cost. Differences
assumptions. Remeasurement losses for other
between the actual return on plan assets and the
assumptions in 2023 primarily related to a decrease in
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets are
the long-term lump sum interest rate, partially offset
immediately recognized through earnings upon
by gains from mortality updates. Remeasurement
remeasurement. Short-term asset performance can
gains for other assumptions in 2022 primarily related to
differ significantly from the expected rate of return,
an increase in the long-term lump sum interest rate.
especially in volatile markets. In 2023, the actual return
on plan assets was higher than the expected return
Impact of assumption changes to net periodic pension cost as of December 31, 2023
Basis/percentage Increase (decrease)
($ in millions) point change to net cost, pre-tax
+100 basis points $ (398)
Pension plans discount rate
-100 basis points 476
+100 basis points (42)
Expected long-term rate of return on assets
-100 basis points 42
200 2023 Annual ReportRegulation and Legal Proceedings and Pending Accounting Standards
Regulation and Legal Proceedings
We are subject to extensive regulation and we are involved in various legal and regulatory actions, all of which have
an effect on specific aspects of our business. For a detailed discussion of the legal and regulatory actions in which we
are involved, see Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements.
Pending Accounting Standards
There are pending accounting standards that we have not implemented because the implementation dates have
not yet occurred. For a discussion of these pending standards, see Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements.
The effect of implementing certain accounting standards on our financial results and financial condition is often
based in part on market conditions at the time of implementation of the standard and other factors we are unable to
determine prior to implementation. For this reason, we are sometimes unable to estimate the effect of certain pending
accounting standards until the relevant authoritative body finalizes these standards or until we implement them.
201 www.allstate.comFinancial Statements
Financial Statements
The Allstate Corporation and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Operations
Years Ended December 31,
(In millions, except per share data) 2023 2022 2021
Revenues
Property and casualty insurance premiums $ 50,670 $ 45,904 $ 42,218
Accident and health insurance premiums and contract charges 1,846 1,832 1,834
Other revenue 2,400 2,344 2,172
Net investment income 2,478 2,403 3,293
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives (300) (1,072) 1,084
Total revenues 57,094 51,411 50,601
Costs and expenses
Property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense 41,070 37,264 29,318
Shelter-in-Place Payback expense — — 29
Accident, health and other policy benefits (including remeasurement
(gains) losses of $0, $(4), and $(11)) 1,071 1,042 1,060
Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs 7,278 6,634 6,236
Operating costs and expenses 7,137 7,446 7,260
Pension and other postretirement remeasurement (gains) losses 9 116 (644)
Restructuring and related charges 169 51 170
Amortization of purchased intangibles 329 353 376
Interest expense 379 335 330
Total costs and expenses 57,442 53,241 44,135
(Loss) income from operations before income tax expense (348) (1,830) 6,466
Income tax (benefit) expense (135) (488) 1,292
Net (loss) income from continuing operations (213) (1,342) 5,174
Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax — — (3,593)
Net (loss) income (213) (1,342) 1,581
Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (25) (53) (33)
Net (loss) income attributable to Allstate (188) (1,289) 1,614
Less: Preferred stock dividends 128 105 114
Net (loss) income applicable to common shareholders $ (316) $ (1,394) $ 1,500
Earnings per common share applicable to common shareholders
Basic
Continuing operations $ (1.20) $ (5.14) $ 17.28
Discontinued operations — — (12.19)
Total $ (1.20) $ (5.14) $ 5.09
Diluted
Continuing operations $ (1.20) $ (5.14) $ 17.03
Discontinued operations — — (12.02)
Total $ (1.20) $ (5.14) $ 5.01
Weighted average common shares - Basic 262.5 271.2 294.8
Weighted average common shares - Diluted 262.5 271.2 299.1
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
202 2023 Annual ReportFinancial Statements
The Allstate Corporation and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss)
Years Ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Net (loss) income $ (213) $ (1,342) $ 1,581
Other comprehensive income (loss), after-tax
Changes in:
Unrealized net capital gains and losses 1,651 (2,853) (2,583)
Unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments 67 (150) (8)
Unamortized pension and other postretirement prior service credit (16) (43) (59)
Discount rate for reserve for future policy benefits (10) 228 49
Other comprehensive income (loss), after-tax 1,692 (2,818) (2,601)
Comprehensive income (loss) 1,479 (4,160) (1,020)
Less: Comprehensive loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (15) (73) (36)
Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to Allstate $ 1,494 $ (4,087) $ (984)
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
203 www.allstate.comFinancial Statements
The Allstate Corporation and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position
December 31,
($ in millions, except par value data) 2023 2022
Assets
Investments
Fixed income securities, at fair value (amortized cost, net $49,649 and $45,370) $ 48,865 $ 42,485
Equity securities, at fair value (cost $2,244 and $4,253) 2,411 4,567
Mortgage loans, net 822 762
Limited partnership interests 8,380 8,114
Short-term, at fair value (amortized cost $5,145 and $4,174) 5,144 4,173
Other investments, net 1,055 1,728
Total investments 66,677 61,829
Cash 722 736
Premium installment receivables, net 10,044 9,165
Deferred policy acquisition costs 5,940 5,442
Reinsurance and indemnification recoverables, net 8,809 9,619
Accrued investment income 539 423
Deferred income taxes 219 382
Property and equipment, net 859 987
Goodwill 3,502 3,502
Other assets, net 6,051 5,904
Total assets 103,362 97,989
Liabilities
Reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense 39,858 37,541
Reserve for future policy benefits 1,347 1,322
Contractholder funds 888 879
Unearned premiums 24,709 22,299
Claim payments outstanding 1,353 1,268
Other liabilities and accrued expenses 9,635 9,353
Debt 7,942 7,964
Total liabilities 85,732 80,626
Commitments and Contingent Liabilities (Note 7, 9 and 15)
Shareholders’ equity
Preferred stock and additional capital paid-in, $1 par value, 25 million shares authorized,
82.0 thousand and 81.0 thousand shares issued and outstanding, $2,050 and $2,025 aggregate
liquidation preference 2,001 1,970
Common stock, $.01 par value, 2.0 billion shares authorized and 900 million issued, 262 million and
263 million shares outstanding 9 9
Additional capital paid-in 3,854 3,788
Retained income 49,716 50,970
Treasury stock, at cost (638 million and 637 million shares) (37,110) (36,857)
Accumulated other comprehensive income:
Unrealized net capital gains and losses (604) (2,255)
Unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments (98) (165)
Unamortized pension and other postretirement prior service credit 13 29
Discount rate for reserve for future policy benefits (11) (1)
Total accumulated other comprehensive loss (700) (2,392)
Total Allstate shareholders’ equity 17,770 17,488
Noncontrolling interest (140) (125)
Total equity 17,630 17,363
Total liabilities and equity $ 103,362 $ 97,989
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
204 2023 Annual ReportFinancial Statements
The Allstate Corporation and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity
Years Ended December 31,
($ in millions, except per share data) 2023 2022 2021
Preferred stock par value $ — $ — $ —
Preferred stock additional capital paid-in
Balance, beginning of year 1,970 1,970 1,970
Acquisition — — 450
Preferred stock issuance, net of issuance costs 587 — —
Preferred stock redemption (556) — (450)
Balance, end of year 2,001 1,970 1,970
Common stock par value 9 9 9
Common stock additional capital paid-in
Balance, beginning of year 3,788 3,722 3,498
Forward contract on accelerated share repurchase agreement — — 113
Equity incentive plans activity, net 66 66 111
Balance, end of year 3,854 3,788 3,722
Retained income
Balance, beginning of year 50,970 53,288 52,767
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — — (21)
Net (loss) income (188) (1,289) 1,614
Dividends on common stock (declared per share of $3.56, $3.40 and $3.24) (938) (924) (958)
Dividends on preferred stock (128) (105) (114)
Balance, end of year 49,716 50,970 53,288
Treasury stock
Balance, beginning of year (36,857) (34,471) (31,331)
Shares acquired (332) (2,496) (3,262)
Shares reissued under equity incentive plans, net 79 110 122
Balance, end of year (37,110) (36,857) (34,471)
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
Balance, beginning of year (2,392) 426 3,304
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — — (277)
Change in unrealized net capital gains and losses 1,651 (2,853) (2,583)
Change in unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments 67 (150) (8)
Change in unamortized pension and other postretirement prior service credit (16) (43) (59)
Change in discount rate for reserve for future policy benefits (10) 228 49
Balance, end of year (700) (2,392) 426
Total Allstate shareholders’ equity 17,770 17,488 24,944
Noncontrolling interest
Balance, beginning of year (125) (52) —
Acquisition — — (16)
Change in unrealized net capital gains and losses 10 (20) (3)
Noncontrolling loss (25) (53) (33)
Balance, end of year (140) (125) (52)
Total equity $ 17,630 $ 17,363 $ 24,892
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
205 www.allstate.comFinancial Statements
The Allstate Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
Years Ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Cash flows from operating activities
Net (loss) income $ (213) $ (1,342) $ 1,581
Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating
activities:
Depreciation, amortization and other non-cash items 704 847 1,086
Net (gains) losses on investments and derivatives 300 1,072 (1,279)
Pension and other postretirement remeasurement (gains) losses 9 116 (644)
Amortization of deferred gain on reinsurance — — (4)
Loss on disposition of operations, net of tax — — 4,031
Changes in:
Policy benefits and other insurance reserves 2,202 4,445 2,444
Unearned premiums 2,385 2,539 1,608
Deferred policy acquisition costs (489) (713) (624)
Premium installment receivables, net (861) (1,038) (498)
Reinsurance recoverables, net 807 451 (1,570)
Income taxes (229) (715) 353
Other operating assets and liabilities (387) (541) (1,368)
Net cash provided by operating activities 4,228 5,121 5,116
Cash flows from investing activities
Proceeds from sales
Fixed income securities 22,973 31,494 31,774
Equity securities 5,400 10,969 4,513
Limited partnership interests 710 970 886
Other investments 594 1,071 1,406
Investment collections
Fixed income securities 1,641 728 2,284
Mortgage loans 81 163 860
Other investments 152 167 550
Investment purchases
Fixed income securities (29,431) (36,920) (33,857)
Equity securities (2,935) (9,294) (6,409)
Limited partnership interests (890) (1,258) (1,766)
Mortgage loans (145) (104) (221)
Other investments (292) (295) (1,647)
Change in short-term and other investments, net (617) 792 4,017
Purchases of property and equipment, net (267) (420) (345)
Proceeds from sale of property and equipment 27 209 —
Acquisition of operations, net of cash acquired — — (3,593)
Proceeds from disposition of operations, net of cash transferred — — 2,058
Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (2,999) (1,728) 510
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issuance of debt 743 — —
Redemption and repayment of debt (750) — (436)
Proceeds from issuance of preferred stock 587 — —
Redemption of preferred stock (575) — (450)
Contractholder fund deposits 130 133 826
Contractholder fund withdrawals (35) (49) (1,140)
Dividends paid on common stock (925) (926) (885)
Dividends paid on preferred stock (107) (105) (114)
Treasury stock purchases (335) (2,520) (3,120)
Shares reissued under equity incentive plans, net 73 82 114
Other (49) (35) (35)
Net cash used in financing activities (1,243) (3,420) (5,240)
Net (decrease) increase in cash, including cash classified as assets held for sale (14) (27) 386
Cash from continuing operations at beginning of period 736 763 311
Cash classified as assets held for sale at beginning of period — — 66
Less: Cash classified as assets held for sale at end of period — — —
Cash from continuing operations at end of period $ 722 $ 736 $ 763
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
206 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 1 General
Basis of presentation Discontinued Operations and Held for Sale
The accompanying consolidated financial A business is classified as held for sale when
statements include the accounts of The Allstate management having the authority to approve the
Corporation (the “Corporation”) and its wholly owned action commits to a plan to sell the business, the sale
subsidiaries, primarily Allstate Insurance Company is probable to occur during the next 12 months at a
(“AIC”), a property and casualty insurance company price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair
(collectively referred to as the “Company” or “Allstate”) value and certain other criteria are met. A business
and variable interest entities (“VIEs”) in which the classified as held for sale is recorded at the lower of its
Company is considered a primary beneficiary. These carrying amount or estimated fair value less cost to
consolidated financial statements have been prepared sell. When the carrying amount of the business
in conformity with accounting principles generally exceeds its estimated fair value less cost to sell, a loss
accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). All is recognized and updated each reporting period as
significant intercompany accounts and transactions appropriate.
have been eliminated. Certain amounts have been
The Company completed its sale of the life and
reclassified or recast to reflect the application of the
annuity business in 2021.
new guidance to all in-scope long-duration insurance
contracts to conform to current year presentation. The results of operations of business classified as
Additional details of the new guidance are included in held for sale are reported as discontinued operations if
Note 2. the disposal represents a strategic shift that will have a
major effect on the entity’s operations and financial
The preparation of financial statements in
results. The disposal of a reportable segment generally
conformity with GAAP requires management to make
qualifies for discontinued operations presentation.
estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts
reported in the consolidated financial statements and When a business is identified for discontinued
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from operations reporting:
those estimates.
• Results for prior periods are retrospectively
Nature of operations reclassified as discontinued operations
Allstate is engaged, principally in the United • Results of operations are reported in a single line,
States, in the property and casualty insurance net of tax, in the Consolidated Statements of
business. Allstate is one of the country’s largest Operations
personal property and casualty insurers and is
• Assets and liabilities are reported as held for sale in
organized into five reportable segments: Allstate
the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position in
Protection, Run-off Property-Liability, Protection
the period in which the business is classified as held
Services, Allstate Health and Benefits, and Corporate
for sale
and Other.
Additional details by major classification of
Allstate’s primary business is the sale of private
operating results are included in Note 3.
passenger auto and homeowners insurance. The
Company also offers several other personal property Risks and uncertainties
and casualty insurance products, select commercial
property and casualty coverages, consumer product Allstate has exposure to catastrophic events,
protection plans, device and mobile data collection including wind/hail, wildfires, tornadoes, hurricanes,
services and analytic solutions using automotive tropical storms, earthquakes, severe freeze events,
telematics information, roadside assistance, protection volcanic eruptions, terrorism and industrial accidents.
and insurance products, employer voluntary benefits
Catastrophes, an inherent risk of the property and
and group accident and health insurance and identity
casualty insurance business, have contributed, and will
protection. Allstate primarily distributes its products
continue to contribute, to material year-to-year
through exclusive agents, financial specialists,
fluctuations in the Company’s results of operations and
independent agents and brokers, major retailers,
financial position (see Note 9). The nature and level of
contact centers and the internet.
catastrophic loss experienced in any period cannot be
On November 1, 2023, the Company announced predicted and could be material to results of
that it is pursuing the sale of the Health and Benefits operations and financial position.
business.
207 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
The Company considers the following categories • Wind/Hail, Rain and Tornado — Texas, Illinois,
and locations to be the greatest areas of potential Georgia and Colorado
catastrophe losses:
• Earthquakes and fires following earthquakes —
• Wildfires — California, Hawaii, Colorado, Oregon Major metropolitan areas near fault lines in the
and Texas states of California, Oregon, Washington, South
Carolina and Kentucky
• Hurricanes — Major metropolitan centers in
counties along the eastern and gulf coasts of the
United States
Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Investments fair value primarily utilizing the net asset value (“NAV”)
as a practical expedient to determine fair value.
Fixed income securities include bonds and asset-
backed securities (“ABS”). Fixed income securities, Short-term investments, including money market
which may be sold prior to their contractual maturity, funds, commercial paper, U.S. Treasury bills and other
are designated as available-for-sale (“AFS”) and are short-term investments, are carried at fair value. Other
carried at fair value. The difference between amortized investments primarily consist of bank loans, policy
cost, net of credit loss allowances (“amortized cost, loans, real estate and derivatives. Bank loans are
net”) and fair value, net of deferred income taxes, is primarily senior secured corporate loans. Policy loans
reflected as a component of accumulated other are carried at unpaid principal balances. Real estate is
comprehensive income (“AOCI”). The Company carried at cost less accumulated depreciation.
excludes accrued interest receivable from the Derivatives are carried at fair value.
amortized cost basis of its AFS fixed income securities.
Investment income primarily consists of interest,
Cash received from calls and make-whole payments is
dividends, income from limited partnership interests,
reflected as a component of proceeds from sales and
rental income from real estate, and income from
cash received from maturities and pay-downs is
certain derivative transactions.
reflected as a component of investment collections
within the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Interest is recognized on an accrual basis using the
effective yield method and dividends are recorded at
Equity securities primarily include common stocks,
the ex-dividend date. Interest income for ABS is
exchange traded and mutual funds, non-redeemable
determined considering estimated pay-downs,
preferred stocks and real estate investment trust
including prepayments, obtained from third-party data
equity investments. Certain exchange traded and
sources and internal estimates. Actual prepayment
mutual funds have fixed income securities as their
experience is periodically reviewed, and effective yields
underlying investments. Equity securities are carried at
are recalculated when differences arise between the
fair value. Equity securities without readily
prepayments originally anticipated and the actual
determinable or estimable fair values are measured
prepayments received and currently anticipated. For
using the measurement alternative, which is cost less
ABS of high credit quality with fixed interest rates, the
impairment, if any, and adjustments resulting from
effective yield is recalculated on a retrospective basis.
observable price changes in orderly transactions for
For all others, the effective yield is generally
the identical or similar investment of the same issuer.
recalculated on a prospective basis. Net investment
Mortgage loans and bank loans are carried at income for AFS fixed income securities includes the
amortized cost, net, which represent the amount impact of accreting the credit loss allowance for the
expected to be collected. The Company excludes time value of money. Accrual of income is suspended
accrued interest receivable from the amortized cost for fixed income securities when the timing and
basis of its mortgage and bank loans. Credit loss amount of cash flows expected to be received is not
allowances are estimates of expected credit losses, probable. Accrual of income is suspended for
established for loans upon origination or purchase, and mortgage loans and bank loans that are in default or
are established considering all relevant information when full and timely collection of principal and interest
available, including past events, current conditions, payments is not probable. Accrued income receivable
and reasonable and supportable forecasts over the life is monitored for recoverability, and when not expected
of the loans. Loans are evaluated on a pooled basis to be collected, is written off through net investment
when they share similar risk characteristics; otherwise, income. Cash receipts on investments on nonaccrual
they are evaluated individually. status are generally recorded as a reduction of
amortized cost.
Investments in limited partnership interests are
primarily accounted for in accordance with the equity Income from limited partnership interests carried
method of accounting (“EMA”) and include interests in at fair value is recognized based upon the changes in
private equity funds, real estate funds and other funds. fair value of the investee’s equity primarily determined
Investments in limited partnership interests purchased using NAV. Income from EMA limited partnership
prior to January 1, 2018, where the Company’s interest interests is recognized based on the Company’s share
is so minor that it exercises virtually no influence over of the partnerships’ earnings. Income from EMA limited
operating and financial policies, are accounted for at partnership interests is generally recognized on a three
208 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
month delay due to the availability of the related The Company maintains the right and ability to
financial statements from investees. repossess the securities loaned on short notice.
Net gains and losses on investments and Recognition of premium revenues and contract
derivatives include gains and losses on investment charges, and related benefits and interest credited
sales, changes in the credit loss allowances related to
Property and casualty insurance premiums include
fixed income securities, mortgage loans and bank
premiums from personal lines policies, protection
loans, impairments, valuation changes of equity
plans, other contracts (primarily protection and
investments, including equity securities and certain
insurance products) and roadside assistance.
limited partnerships where the underlying assets are
predominately public equity securities, and periodic Personal lines insurance premiums are deferred
changes in fair value and settlements of certain and earned on a pro-rata basis over the terms of the
derivatives, including hedge ineffectiveness. Net gains policies, typically periods of six or twelve months.
and losses on sales of investments and derivatives are
Revenues related to protection plans, other
determined on a specific identification basis and are
contracts (primarily protection and insurance products)
net of credit losses already recognized through an
and roadside assistance are deferred and earned over
allowance.
the term of the contract in a manner that recognizes
Derivative and embedded derivative financial revenue as obligations under the contracts are fulfilled.
instruments Revenues from these products are classified as
premiums as the products are backed by insurance.
Derivative financial instruments include interest
Protection plans and protection and insurance
rate swaps, credit default swaps, futures (interest rate
premiums are recognized using a cost-based
and equity), options (including swaptions), warrants
incurrence method over the term of the contracts,
and stock rights, foreign currency forwards and total
which is generally one to five years. Roadside
return swaps.
assistance premiums are recognized evenly over the
All derivatives are accounted for on a fair value term of the contract as performance obligations are
basis and reported as other investments, other assets fulfilled.
and other liabilities and accrued expenses. Embedded
The portion of premiums written applicable to the
derivative instruments subject to bifurcation are also
unexpired terms of the policies is recorded as
accounted for on a fair value basis and are reported
unearned premiums.
together with the host contract. Cash flows from other
derivatives are reported in cash flows from investing Unearned premiums
activities within the Consolidated Statements of Cash
December 31,
Flows.
($ in millions) 2023 2022
For derivatives for which hedge accounting is not Allstate Protection $ 19,542 $ 17,538
applied, the income statement effects, including fair Protection Services 5,150 4,745
value gains and losses and accrued periodic Total $ 24,692 $ 22,283
settlements, are reported either in net gains and losses
on investments and derivatives or in a single line item Protection Services For the year ended December
together with the results of the associated asset or 31, 2023, the Company recognized $1.74 billion of
liability for which risks are being managed. property and casualty insurance premiums for
Protection Services that were included in the unearned
Securities loaned
premium balance as of December 31, 2022.
The Company’s business activities include
For the year ended December 31, 2022, the
securities lending transactions, which are used
Company recognized $1.46 billion of property and
primarily to generate net investment income. The
casualty insurance premiums for Protection Services
proceeds received in conjunction with securities
that were included in the unearned premium balance
lending transactions can be reinvested in short-term
as of December 31, 2021.
investments or fixed income securities. These
transactions are short-term in nature, usually 30 days The Company expects to recognize approximately
or less. $1.85 billion, $1.43 billion and $1.87 billion of the
December 31, 2023 unearned premium balance in
The Company receives cash collateral for securities
2024, 2025 and thereafter, respectively.
loaned in an amount generally equal to 102% and 105%
of the fair value of domestic and foreign securities, Health and benefits Voluntary accident and health
respectively, and records the related obligations to insurance products are expected to remain in force for
return the collateral in other liabilities and accrued an extended period and therefore are primarily
expenses. The carrying value of these obligations classified as long-duration contracts. Traditional life
approximates fair value because of their relatively insurance products consist principally of products with
short-term nature. The Company monitors the market fixed and guaranteed premiums and benefits, primarily
value of securities loaned on a daily basis and obtains term and whole life insurance products. Premiums from
additional collateral as necessary under the terms of these products are recognized as revenue when due
the agreements to mitigate counterparty credit risk. from policyholders, net of any credit loss allowance for
uncollectible premiums. Benefits are reflected in
209 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
accident, health and other policy benefits and issued by third-party insurance companies. The
recognized over the life of the policy in relation to Company recognizes Medicare-related and other
premiums. accident and health commission revenues equal to the
estimated lifetime value of the revenues at the time
Interest-sensitive life contracts, such as universal
when the policy is sold, net of an allowance for
life, are insurance contracts whose terms are not fixed
estimated policy cancellations, as no further
and guaranteed. The terms that may be changed
performance obligations exist. The allowance for
include premiums paid by the contractholder, interest
estimated third-party cancellations is periodically
credited to the contractholder account balance and
evaluated and adjusted as necessary.
contract charges assessed against the contractholder
account balance. Premiums from these contracts are Deferred policy acquisition costs
reported as contractholder fund deposits. Contract
Deferred policy acquisition costs (“DAC”) are
charges consist of fees assessed against the
related directly to the successful acquisition of new or
contractholder account balance for the cost of
renewal insurance contracts and are deferred and
insurance (mortality risk), contract administration and
recognized as an expense over the life of the related
surrender of the contract prior to contractually
contracts. These costs are principally agent and broker
specified dates. These contract charges are recognized
remuneration, premium taxes and certain underwriting
as revenue when assessed against the contractholder
expenses and are included in amortization of deferred
account balance. Benefit payments in excess of the
policy acquisition costs on the Consolidated
contractholder account balance are reflected in
Statements of Operations. All other acquisition costs
accident, health and other policy benefits.
are expensed as incurred and included in operating
Interest credited to contractholder funds, which costs and expenses.
are reported in accident, health and other policy
Customers of the Company may exchange one
benefits, represents interest accrued or paid on
insurance policy for another offered by the Company,
interest-sensitive life contracts. Crediting rates for
or make modifications to an existing life, accident and
interest-sensitive life contracts are adjusted
health or property and casualty contract issued by the
periodically by the Company to reflect current market
Company. These transactions are identified as internal
conditions subject to contractually guaranteed
replacements for accounting purposes. Internal
minimum rates.
replacement transactions determined to result in
Premium installment receivables represent replacement contracts that are substantially
premiums written and not yet collected, net of the unchanged from the replaced contracts are accounted
credit loss allowance for uncollectible premiums. These for as continuations of the replaced contracts.
receivables are primarily outstanding for one year or Unamortized DAC related to the replaced contracts
less. The Company utilizes historical internal data continue to be deferred and amortized in connection
including aging analyses to estimate allowances under with the replacement contracts. For traditional life,
current conditions and for the forecast period. The accident and health and property and casualty
Company regularly evaluates and updates the data insurance policies, any changes to unamortized DAC
and adjusts its allowance as appropriate. that result from replacement contracts are treated as
prospective revisions and any costs associated with
Rollforward of credit loss allowance for premium the issuance of replacement contracts are
installment receivables characterized as maintenance costs and expensed as
For the years ended incurred.
December 31,
Property and casualty insurance For property and
($ in millions) 2023 2022
casualty insurance, DAC is amortized into income as
Beginning balance $ (132) $ (107) premiums are earned pro rata over the period of the
Increase in the provision for policy. DAC associated with property and casualty
credit losses (348) (313) insurance is periodically reviewed for recoverability and
Write-off of uncollectible adjusted if necessary. Future investment income is
premium installment considered in determining the recoverability of DAC.
receivable amounts 342 288
Long-duration voluntary accident and health
Ending balance $ (138) $ (132)
insurance, traditional life insurance contracts, and
interest-sensitive life insurance contracts Voluntary
Other revenue
accident and health insurance and traditional life
Other revenue represents fees collected from insurance contracts are grouped by product and issue
policyholders relating to premium installment year into cohorts consistent with the cohorts used to
payments, commissions on sales of non-proprietary calculate the reserve for future policy benefits (“RFPB”).
products, sales of identity protection services, fee- Interest-sensitive life insurance contracts are grouped
based services and other revenue transactions. Other into cohorts by issue year, and the issue year is
revenue is recognized when performance obligations determined based on contract issue date. DAC is
are fulfilled. amortized on a constant level basis over the expected
contract term. The constant level basis used for all
The Company collects service fees in the form of
cohorts is based on policies-in-force. The expected
commission and general agent fees by selling policies
contract term and mortality, morbidity, and lapse
210 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
assumptions are used to calculate both DAC Allowances for property and casualty and accident
amortization and the RFPB. If actual contract lapses and health reinsurance recoverables are established
are greater than expected lapses for any cohort, each primarily through risk-based evaluations.
affected cohort’s DAC balance will be reduced in the
The property and casualty recoverable evaluation
current period based on the difference between the
considers the credit rating of the reinsurer, the period
actual and expected lapses. No adjustments to DAC
over which the reinsurance recoverable balances are
amortization are recorded if actual contract lapses are
expected to be recovered and other relevant factors
less than expected lapses for any cohort. If the
including historical experience of reinsurer failures.
Company makes an update to any of its mortality,
Reinsurers in liquidation or in default status are
morbidity, or lapse assumptions, the Company will use
evaluated individually using the Company’s historical
the assumptions prospectively to amortize any
liquidation recovery assumptions and any other
cohort’s remaining DAC over the remaining expected
relevant information available including the most
contract term.
recent public information related to the financial
Present value of future profits The costs assigned condition or liquidation status of the reinsurer. For
to the right to receive future cash flows from certain accident and health reinsurance recoverables, the
business purchased from other insurers are also Company uses a probability of default and loss given
classified as DAC in the Consolidated Statements of default model developed independently of the
Financial Position. The costs capitalized represent the Company to estimate current expected credit losses.
present value of future profits expected to be earned The accident and health reinsurance recoverable
over the lives of the contracts acquired. evaluation utilizes factors including historical industry
factors based on the probability of liquidation, and
The Company amortizes the present value of
incorporates current loss given default factors
future profits for long-duration voluntary accident and
reflective of the industry.
health insurance, traditional life insurance contracts
and interest-sensitive life insurance contracts using The Company monitors the credit ratings of
the same methodology and assumptions as the reinsurer counterparties and evaluates the
amortization of DAC. The present value of future circumstances surrounding credit rating changes as
profits for these products is subject to premium inputs into its credit loss assessments. Uncollectible
deficiency testing. reinsurance recoverable balances are written off
against the allowances when there is no reasonable
For property and casualty insurance, these costs
expectation of recovery.
are amortized as profits emerge over the lives of the
acquired business and are periodically evaluated for The changes in the allowances are reported in
recoverability. property and casualty insurance claims and claims
expense and accident, health and other policy benefits.
The present value of future profits was $8 million
and $10 million as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, Indemnification The Company also participates in
respectively. Amortization expense of the present various indemnification mechanisms, including industry
value of future profits was $2 million, $11 million and pools and facilities, which are reimbursement
$324 million in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. mechanisms that assess participating insurers for
expected insured claims, reimburse participating
Reinsurance and indemnification
insurers for qualifying paid claims and permit
Reinsurance In the normal course of business, the participating insurers to recoup amounts assessed
Company seeks to limit aggregate and single exposure directly from insureds. Indemnification recoverables
to losses on large risks by purchasing reinsurance. The are backed by the financial resources of the property
Company has also used reinsurance to affect the and casualty insurance company market participants.
disposition of certain blocks of business. Reinsurance
The design and function of these indemnification
does not extinguish the Company’s primary liability
programs does not result in the retention of insurance
under the policies written. Therefore, in addition to
or reinsurance risk by the indemnitee. Based on the
establishing allowances as appropriate after evaluating
Company’s evaluation of these programs on an
reinsurers’ activities related to claims settlement
individual basis, the establishment of credit loss
practices and commutations, the Company evaluates
allowances is not warranted at this time. The Company
reinsurer counterparty credit risk and records
has not experienced any historical credit losses related
reinsurance recoverables net of credit loss allowances.
to its indemnification programs. The Company
The Company assesses counterparty credit risk for
continues to monitor these programs to determine
individual reinsurers separately when more relevant or
whether any changes from historical experience have
on a pooled basis when shared risk characteristics
emerged or are expected to emerge or whether there
exist. The evaluation considers the credit quality of the
have been any changes in the design or administration
reinsurer and the period over which the recoverable
of the programs that would require establishment of
balances are expected to be collected. The Company
credit loss allowances.
considers factors including past events, current
conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts Revenue recognition The amounts reported as
in the development of the estimate of credit loss reinsurance and indemnification recoverables include
allowances. amounts paid and due from reinsurers and indemnitors
as well as estimates of amounts expected to be
211 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
recovered from reinsurers and indemnitors on are generally 10 years, 5 years and 5 years,
insurance liabilities that have been incurred but not yet respectively. Intangible assets are carried at cost less
paid. Reinsurance and indemnification recoverables on accumulated amortization.
unpaid losses are estimated based upon assumptions
Intangible assets by type
consistent with those used in establishing the liabilities
related to the underlying contract. Reinsurance and December 31,
indemnification premiums are generally reflected in ($ in millions) 2023 2022
income in a manner consistent with the recognition of Distribution and customer
premiums on the associated contracts. For relationships $ 515 $ 697
catastrophe coverage, the cost of reinsurance Trade names and licenses 159 179
premiums is recognized ratably over the contract Technology and other 292 301
period to the extent coverage remains available.
Total $ 966 $ 1,177
Certain catastrophe agreements are subject to
reinstatement premiums which are recorded as
Amortization expense is calculated using an
catastrophe losses when earned.
accelerated amortization method. Amortization
Goodwill expense on intangible assets was $329 million,
$353 million and $376 million in 2023, 2022 and 2021,
Goodwill represents the excess of amounts paid for
respectively.
acquiring businesses over the fair value of the net
assets acquired, less any impairment of goodwill Amortization expense of intangible assets for the
recognized. The Company’s goodwill reporting units next five years and thereafter
are equivalent to its reportable segments to which ($ in millions)
goodwill has been assigned: Allstate Protection, 2024 $ 271
Protection Services, and Allstate Health and Benefits. 2025 215
2026 147
Goodwill by reporting unit
2027 98
December 31,
2028 54
($ in millions) 2023 2022
Thereafter 42
Allstate Protection $ 1,563 $ 1,563
Total amortization $ 827
Protection Services 1,494 1,494
Allstate Health and Benefits 445 445
Accumulated amortization of intangible assets was
Total $ 3,502 $ 3,502
$1.80 billion and $1.48 billion as of December 31, 2023
and 2022, respectively.
Goodwill is recognized when acquired and
allocated to reporting units based on which unit is Trade names and licenses are considered to have
expected to benefit from the synergies of the business an indefinite useful life and are reviewed for
combination. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested impairment at least annually or more frequent if
for impairment at least annually. The Company circumstances arise that indicate an impairment may
performs its annual goodwill impairment testing during have occurred. An impairment is recognized if the
the fourth quarter of each year based upon data as of carrying amount of the asset exceeds its estimated fair
the close of the third quarter. Goodwill impairment is value.
measured and recognized as the amount by which a
Property and equipment
reporting unit’s carrying value, including goodwill,
exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying Property and equipment is carried at cost less
amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. The accumulated depreciation. Included in property and
Company also reviews goodwill for impairment equipment are capitalized costs related to computer
whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as software licenses and software developed for internal
deteriorating or adverse market conditions, indicate use. These costs generally consist of certain external
that it is more likely than not that the carrying amount payroll and payroll related costs. Property and
of the reporting unit including goodwill may exceed the equipment depreciation is calculated using the
fair value of the reporting unit. The goodwill straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of
impairment analysis is performed at the reporting unit the assets, generally 3 to 10 years for equipment and
level. 40 years for real property. Depreciation expense is
reported in operating costs and expenses.
As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, the fair value of
Accumulated depreciation on property and equipment
the Company’s goodwill reporting units exceeded their
was $2.59 billion and $2.45 billion as of December 31,
carrying values.
2023 and 2022, respectively. Depreciation expense on
Intangible assets property and equipment was $343 million, $335 million
and $411 million in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
Intangible assets (reported in other assets) consist
The Company reviews its property and equipment for
of capitalized costs primarily related to acquired
impairment whenever events or changes in
distribution and customer relationships, trade names
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may
and licenses, technology and other assets. The
not be recoverable.
estimated useful lives of distribution and customer
relationships, technology and other intangible assets
212 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Income taxes premium ratio which is the present value of insurance
contract benefits divided by the present value of gross
Income taxes are accounted for using the asset
premiums. The present value of contract benefits and
and liability method under which deferred tax assets
gross premiums are determined using the discount
and liabilities are recognized for temporary differences
rate at contract inception. The net premium ratio is
between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets
applied to premiums due on a periodic basis to
and liabilities at the enacted tax rates. A deferred tax
compute the RFPB. The net premium ratio is
asset valuation allowance is established when it is
recomputed at least annually using both actual
more likely than not such assets will not be realized.
historical cash flows and future cash flows anticipated
The Company recognizes interest expense related to
over the life of the cohort of contracts subject to
income tax matters in income tax expense and
measurement. Assumptions including mortality,
penalties in operating costs and expenses.
morbidity, and lapses affect the timing and amount of
Reserve for property and casualty insurance claims estimated cash flows used to calculate the RFPB.
and claims expense
The Company has grouped contracts into cohorts
The reserve for property and casualty insurance based on product type and issue year. Examples of
claims and claims expense is the estimate of amounts insurance product types include whole life, term life,
necessary to settle all reported and unreported critical illness and disability. Issue year is based on the
incurred claims for the ultimate cost of insured issuance date of the contract to the policyholder,
property and casualty losses, based upon the facts of except in the case of contracts acquired in a business
each case and the Company’s experience with similar combination, where the issue date is based on the
cases. Estimated amounts of salvage and subrogation acquisition date of the business combination. The
are deducted from the reserve for claims and claims RFPB is calculated for contracts in force at the end of
expense. The establishment of appropriate reserves, each period, which results in the Company recognizing
including reserves for catastrophe losses, is an the effects of actual experience in the period it occurs.
inherently uncertain and complex process. Reserve
Annually, in the third quarter, the Company obtains
estimates are primarily derived using an actuarial
historical premiums and benefits information and
estimation process in which historical loss patterns are
evaluates future cash flow assumptions that include
applied to actual paid losses and reported losses (paid
mortality, morbidity, and lapses, and updates cash flow
losses plus individual case reserves established by
assumptions as necessary. The Company has elected
claim adjusters) for an accident or report year to create
to not update the expense assumption when annually
an estimate of how losses are likely to develop over
reviewing and updating future cash flow assumptions.
time. Development factors are calculated quarterly and
Actual premiums and benefits and any updates to
periodically throughout the year for data elements
future cash flow assumptions are incorporated into the
such as claims reported and settled, paid losses, and
calculation of an updated net premium ratio. Updates
paid losses combined with case reserves.
for actual premiums and benefits and changes to
When the Company experiences changes in the future cash flow assumptions will result in a liability
mix or type of claims or changing claim settlement remeasurement gain or loss. The first step to
patterns or data, it applies actuarial judgment in the determining the liability remeasurement gain or loss is
determination and selection of development factors to to calculate the RFPB using revised net premiums
develop reserve liabilities. The effects of inflation are discounted at the locked-in discount rate set at
implicitly considered in the reserving process as a contract issuance. The result of the first step is then
development factor using historic data incorporated as compared to the carrying amount of the RFPB before
a reasonable estimate of future inflation. The historical the updates for actual experience and changes to
development patterns for these data elements are future cash flow assumptions. The decrease (gain) or
used as the assumptions to calculate reserve increase (loss) in the RFPB is reported as liability
estimates, including the reserves for reported and remeasurement gain or loss in net income and
unreported claims; however, when the Company presented parenthetically as part of accident, health
experiences changes it may lead to historical and other policy benefits on the Consolidated
development trends being less predictive of future loss Statements of Operations. The updated net premium
development, potentially creating additional reserve ratio is used in future quarters to measure the RFPB
variability. Reserve estimates are regularly reviewed until the next annual update or an earlier date if the
and updated, using the most current data and Company determines it is necessary to revise future
information available. Any resulting reestimates are cash flow assumptions based on available evidence,
reflected in current results of operations. including actual experience.
Reserve for future policy benefits The discount rate assumption is determined using
a yield curve approach. The yield curve consists of U.S.
Long-duration voluntary accident and health
dollar-denominated senior unsecured fixed-income
insurance and traditional life insurance contracts The
securities issued by U.S. companies that have an A
reserve for future policy benefits (“RFPB”) is calculated
credit rating based on the ratings provided by
using the net premium reserving model, which uses the
nationally recognized rating agencies that include
present value of insurance contract benefits less the
Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s, and Fitch. For points on
present value of net premiums. Under the net premium
the yield curve that do not have observable yields, the
reserving model, the Company computes a net
Company uses linear interpolation which calculates the
213 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
unobservable yield based on the two nearest Pension and other postretirement remeasurement
observable yields, except for any points beyond the gains and losses
last observable yield at 30 years, where interest rates
The Company’s policy is to remeasure its pension
are held constant with the last observable point on the
and postretirement plans on a quarterly basis. Pension
yield curve. The Company updates the current
and other postretirement gains and losses represent
discount rate quarterly and the change in the RFPB
the remeasurement of projected benefit obligations
resulting from the updated current discount rate is
and differences between the expected and actual
recognized in other comprehensive income (“OCI”).
return on plan assets, which are immediately
Accident and health short-duration contracts The recognized in earnings and are referred to as pension
RFPB includes unpaid losses and loss adjustment and other postretirement remeasurement gains and
expense (“LAE”) reserves for individual and certain losseson the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
voluntary accident and health short-duration contracts
The primary factors contributing to pension and
and is an estimate of the Company’s liability from
postretirement remeasurement gains and losses are:
incurred claims at the end of the reporting period. The
unpaid losses and LAE reserves are the result of an
• Changes in the discount rate used to value pension and
ongoing analysis of recent loss development trends postretirement obligations as of the measurement date
and emerging historical experience. Original estimates
• Differences between the expected and the actual return
are increased or decreased as additional information on plan assets
becomes known regarding individual claims. In setting • Changes in demographic assumptions, including
its reserves, the Company reviews its loss data to mortality and participant experience
estimate expected loss development. Management • Changes in lump sum interest rates used to value
believes that its use of standard actuarial methodology pension obligations as of the measurement date
applied to its analyses of its historical experience
provides a reasonable estimate of future losses. Differences in actual experience and changes in
However, actual future losses may differ from the other assumptions affect the Company’s pension and
Company’s estimate, and may be affected by future other postretirement obligations and expenses.
events, including inflation and changes in law and
Pension and other postretirement service cost,
judicial interpretations, which would favorably or
interest cost, expected return on plan assets and
unfavorably impact the ultimate settlement of the
amortization of prior service credits are allocated to
Company’s losses and LAE.
the Company’s reportable segments. The pension and
The anticipated effect of inflation is implicitly other postretirement remeasurement gains and losses
considered when estimating liabilities for losses and are reported in the Corporate and Other segment.
LAE. In addition to inflation, the average severity of
Legal contingencies
claims is affected by a number of factors that may vary
by types and features of policies written. Future The Company reviews its lawsuits, regulatory
average severities are projected from historical trends, inquiries, and other legal proceedings on an ongoing
adjusted for implemented changes in underwriting basis. The Company establishes accruals for such
standards and policy provisions, as well as general matters at management’s best estimate when the
economic trends. These estimated trends are Company assesses that it is probable that a loss has
monitored and revised as necessary based on actual been incurred and the amount of the loss can be
development. reasonably estimated. The Company’s assessment of
whether a loss is reasonably possible or probable is
Unpaid losses include a provision for incurred-but-
based on its assessment of the ultimate outcome of
not-reported (“IBNR”) reserve estimates representing
the matter following all appeals. The Company does
claims that have occurred but have not yet been
not include potential recoveries in its estimates of
reported, some of which are not yet known to the
reasonably possible or probable losses. Legal fees are
insured, as well as a provision for future development
expensed as incurred.
on reported claims. IBNR reserves are generally
calculated by first projecting the ultimate cost of all Debt
claims that have occurred and then subtracting
Debt includes senior notes, senior debentures,
reported losses and loss expenses. Reported losses
subordinated debentures and junior subordinated
include cumulative paid losses and loss expenses plus
debentures issued by the Corporation. Unamortized
case reserves.
debt issuance costs and fair value adjustments are
Contractholder funds reported in debt and are amortized over the expected
period the debt will remain outstanding.
Contractholder funds represent interest-bearing
liabilities arising primarily from the sale of interest- Equity incentive plans
sensitive life insurance contracts. Contractholder funds
The Company has equity incentive plans under
primarily comprise cumulative deposits received and
which it grants nonqualified stock options, restricted
interest credited to the contractholder less cumulative
stock units and performance stock awards (“equity
contract benefits, surrenders, withdrawals and
awards”) to certain employees and directors of the
contract charges for mortality or administrative
Company. The Company measures the fair value of
expenses.
equity awards at the grant date and recognizes the
214 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
expense over the shorter of the period in which the amortized cost on the Consolidated Statements of
requisite service is rendered or retirement eligibility is Financial Position. The Company considers past
attained. The expense for performance stock awards events, current conditions, and reasonable and
with no market condition is adjusted each period to supportable forecasts in estimating an allowance for
reflect the performance factor most likely to be credit losses. The Company also carries a credit loss
achieved at the end of the performance period. The allowance for fixed income securities where applicable
expense for performance stock awards with a market and, when amortized cost is reported, it is net of credit
condition is based on the fair value of the awards at loss allowances. For additional information, refer to the
the grant date which incorporates the probability of Investments, Reinsurance and indemnification or
achieving the market condition. In the event the Recognition of premium revenues and contract
market condition is not met, any previously recognized charges topics of this section.
expense is not reversed. The Company uses a binomial
The Company also estimates a credit loss
lattice model to determine the fair value of employee
allowance for commitments to fund mortgage loans
stock options. The Company uses a Monte Carlo
and bank loans unless they are unconditionally
simulation model to determine the fair value of
cancellable by the Company. The related allowance is
performance stock awards with a market condition.
reported in other liabilities and accrued expenses.
Measurement of credit losses
The Company carries an allowance for expected
credit losses for all financial assets measured at
Allowance for credit losses
As of December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022
Fixed income securities $ 36 $ 13
Mortgage loans 11 7
Bank loans 22 57
Investments 69 77
Premium installment receivables 138 132
Reinsurance recoverables 65 65
Other assets 18 19
Assets 290 293
Commitments to fund mortgage loans and bank loans 1 —
Liabilities 1 —
Total $ 291 $ 293
Leases corresponding lease liabilities adjusted for qualifying
initial direct costs, prepaid or accrued lease payments
The Company has certain operating leases for
and unamortized lease incentives. As most of the
office facilities, computer and office equipment, and
Company’s leases do not disclose the implicit interest
vehicles. The Company’s leases have remaining lease
rate, the Company uses collateralized incremental
terms of generally 1 year to 10 years, some of which
borrowing rates based on information available at lease
include options to extend the leases for up to 20 years,
commencement when determining the present value
and some of which include options to terminate the
of future lease payments. The Company has lease
leases within 45 days.
agreements with lease and non-lease components,
The Company determines if an arrangement is a which are accounted for as a single lease. Lease terms
lease at inception. Leases with an initial term less than may include options to extend or terminate the lease
one year are not recorded on the balance sheet and which are incorporated into the Company’s
the lease costs for these leases are recorded as an measurements when it is reasonably certain that the
expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Company will exercise the option.
Operating leases with terms greater than one year
Operating lease costs are recognized on a
result in a lease liability recorded in other liabilities and
straight-line basis over the lease term and include
accrued expenses with a corresponding right-of-use
interest expense on the lease liability and amortization
(“ROU”) asset recorded in other assets on the
of the ROU asset. Variable lease costs are expensed as
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. As of
incurred and include maintenance costs and real
December 31, 2023 and 2022, the Company had
estate taxes. Lease costs are reported in operating
$265 million and $343 million in lease liabilities and
costs and expenses and totaled $102 million, $131
$163 million and $234 million in ROU assets,
million and $162 million, including $19 million, $23
respectively.
million and $30 million of variable lease costs in 2023,
Operating lease liabilities are recognized at the 2022 and 2021, respectively.
commencement date based on the present value of
future minimum lease payments over the lease term.
ROU assets are recognized based on the
215 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Other information related to operating leases Foreign currency translation
December 31,
The local currency of the Company’s foreign
2023 2022 subsidiaries is deemed to be the functional currency of
Weighted average remaining the country in which these subsidiaries operate. The
3 4
lease term (years) financial statements of the Company’s foreign
Weighted average discount subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at the
3.48 % 3.08 %
rate exchange rate in effect at the end of a reporting period
for assets and liabilities and at average exchange rates
Maturity of lease liabilities during the period for results of operations.
($ in millions) Operating leases
The unrealized gains and losses from the
2024 $ 92
translation of the net assets are recorded as unrealized
2025 77
foreign currency translation adjustments and included
2026 48 in AOCI. Changes in unrealized foreign currency
2027 30 translation adjustments are included in OCI. Gains and
2028 18 losses from foreign currency transactions are reported
Thereafter 20 in operating costs and expenses and have not been
Total lease payments $ 285 material.
Less: interest (20) Earnings per common share
Present value of lease liabilities $ 265
Basic earnings per common share is computed
using the weighted average number of common shares
Variable interest entities
outstanding, including vested unissued participating
A VIE is a legal entity that does not have sufficient restricted stock units. Diluted earnings per common
equity at risk to finance its activities without additional share is computed using the weighted average number
financial support or is structured such that equity of common and dilutive potential common shares
investors lack the ability to make significant decisions outstanding.
relating to the entity’s operations through voting rights
For the Company, dilutive potential common
or do not participate in the gains and losses of the
shares consist of outstanding stock options and
entity. The Company consolidates VIEs in which the
unvested non-participating restricted stock units and
Company is deemed the primary beneficiary. The
contingently issuable performance stock awards. The
primary beneficiary is the entity that has both (1) the
effect of dilutive potential common shares does not
obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive
include options with an anti-dilutive effect on earnings
benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE
per common share because their exercise prices
and (2) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that
exceed the average market price of Allstate common
most significantly affect that entity’s economic
shares during the period or for which the unrecognized
performance.
compensation cost would have an anti-dilutive effect.
216 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Computation of basic and diluted earnings per common share
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions, except per share data) 2023 2022 2021
Numerator:
Net (loss) income from continuing operations $ (213) $ (1,342) $ 5,174
Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (25) (53) (33)
Net (loss) income from continuing operations attributable to Allstate (188) (1,289) 5,207
Less: Preferred stock dividends 128 105 114
Net (loss) income from continuing operations applicable to common
shareholders (316) (1,394) 5,093
Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax — — (3,593)
Net (loss) income applicable to common shareholders $ (316) $ (1,394) $ 1,500
Denominator:
Weighted average common shares outstanding 262.5 271.2 294.8
Effect of dilutive potential common shares (1):
Stock options — — 2.7
Restricted stock units (non-participating) and performance stock awards — — 1.6
Weighted average common and dilutive potential common shares
outstanding 262.5 271.2 299.1
Earnings per share applicable to common shareholders
Basic
Continuing operations $ (1.20) $ (5.14) $ 17.28
Discontinued operations — — (12.19)
Total $ (1.20) $ (5.14) $ 5.09
Diluted (1)
Continuing operations $ (1.20) $ (5.14) $ 17.03
Discontinued operations — — (12.02)
Total $ (1.20) $ (5.14) $ 5.01
Anti-dilutive options excluded from diluted earnings per common share 3.0 1.7 1.3
Weighted average dilutive potential common shares excluded due to net loss
applicable to common shareholders (1) 2.2 3.1 —
(1) As a result of the net loss reported for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, weighted average shares for basic earnings
per share is also used for calculating diluted earnings per share because all dilutive potential common shares are anti-dilutive and
are therefore excluded from the calculation.
217 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Adopted accounting standard
After-tax cumulative effect of change in accounting
principle on transition date
Accounting for Long-Duration Insurance Contracts
Effective January 1, 2023, the Company adopted the ($ in millions) January 1, 2021
Financial Accounting Standards Board (”FASB”)
Decrease in retained
guidance revising the accounting for certain long- income $ 21
duration insurance contracts using the modified
Decrease in AOCI 277
retrospective approach to the transition date of
Total decrease in equity $ 298
January 1, 2021.
Under the new guidance, measurement The decrease in AOCI was primarily attributable to
assumptions, including those for mortality, morbidity a change in the discount rate used in measuring the
and policy lapses, are required to be reviewed at least reserve for future policy benefits for traditional life
annually, and updated as appropriate. In addition, contracts and other long-term products with
reserves under the new guidance are required to be guaranteed terms from a portfolio-based rate at
discounted using an upper-medium grade fixed contract issuance to an upper-medium grade fixed
income instrument yield that is updated through OCI at income-based rate. The decrease in retained income
each reporting date. Additionally, DAC for all long- primarily related to certain cohorts of long-term
duration products are amortized on a simplified basis. contracts whose expected net premiums exceeded
Also, the Company’s reserve for future policy benefits expected gross premiums which resulted in an
and DAC are subject to new disclosure guidance. increase in reserves and a decrease in retained income
equal to the present value of expected future benefits
In addition, the Company met the conditions
less the present value of expected future premiums at
included in Accounting Standards Update No. 2022-05,
the transition date.
Transition for Sold Contracts, and elected to not apply
the new guidance for contracts that were part of the
2021 sales of Allstate Life Insurance Company (“ALIC”)
and Allstate Life Insurance Company of New York
(“ALNY”).
Transition disclosures The following tables summarize the balance of and changes in the reserve for future policy
benefits and DAC on January 1, 2021 upon the adoption of the guidance.
Impact of adoption for reserve for future policy benefits
Accident Traditional Total
( $ in millions) and health life
Pre-adoption 12/31/2020 balance (1) $ 728 $ 311 $ 1,039
Adjustments:
Effect of the remeasurement of the reserve at upper-medium grade fixed income-
based rate (2) 232 153 385
Adjustments for contracts with net premiums in excess of gross premiums (3) 77 — 77
Total adjustments 309 153 462
Post-adoption 1/1/2021 balance 1,037 464 1,501
Less: reinsurance recoverables (4) 159 3 162
Post-adoption 1/1/2021 balance, after reinsurance recoverables $ 878 $ 461 $ 1,339
(1) Traditional life includes $11 million in reserves related to riders of traditional life insurance products reclassified from
contractholder funds.
(2) Adjustment reflected with a corresponding decrease to AOCI.
(3) Adjustment reflected with a corresponding decrease to retained income.
(4)Represents post-adoption January 1, 2021 balance of reinsurance recoverables. Adjustments to reinsurance recoverables for
accident and health products increased January 1, 2021 AOCI by $33 million due to the remeasurement of the reserve at upper-
medium grade fixed income based rate and increased January 1, 2021 retained income by $51 million due to adjustments for
contracts with net premiums in excess of gross premiums.
Impact of adoption for DAC
Accident Traditional Interest- Total
and health life sensitive
( $ in millions) life
Pre-adoption 12/31/2020 balance $ 343 $ 32 $ 95 $ 470
Adjustment for removal of impact of unrealized gains or losses (1) — — 2 2
Post-adoption 1/1/2021 balance $ 343 $ 32 $ 97 $ 472
(1) Adjustment reflected with a corresponding increase to AOCI.
218 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Impacts of the adoption on the financial statements
Consolidated Statements of Operations
As Impact of As
($ in millions, except per share data) reported change adjusted
Year ended December 31, 2022
Revenues
Accident and health insurance premiums and contract charges $ 1,833 $ (1) $ 1,832
Total revenues 51,412 (1) 51,411
Costs and expenses
Accident, health and other policy benefits 1,061 (19) $ 1,042
Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs 6,644 (10) $ 6,634
Total costs and expenses 53,270 (29) 53,241
Loss from operations before income tax expense (1,858) 28 (1,830)
Income tax benefit (494) 6 (488)
Net loss (1,364) 22 (1,342)
Net loss attributable to Allstate (1,311) 22 (1,289)
Net loss applicable to common shareholders $ (1,416) $ 22 $ (1,394)
Earnings per common share:
Net loss applicable to common shareholders per common share - Basic $ (5.22) $ 0.08 $ (5.14)
Net loss applicable to common shareholders per common share - Diluted (5.22) 0.08 (5.14)
Year ended December 31, 2021
Revenues
Accident and health insurance premiums and contract charges $ 1,821 $ 13 $ 1,834
Total revenues 50,588 13 50,601
Costs and expenses
Accident, health and other policy benefits 1,049 11 1,060
Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs 6,252 (16) 6,236
Total costs and expenses 44,140 (5) 44,135
Income from operations before income tax expense 6,448 18 6,466
Income tax benefit 1,289 3 1,292
Net income from continuing operations 5,159 15 5,174
Net income 1,566 15 1,581
Net income attributable to Allstate 1,599 15 1,614
Net income applicable to common shareholders $ 1,485 $ 15 $ 1,500
Earnings per common share:
Net income from continuing operations applicable to common shareholders per
common share - Basic $ 17.23 $ 0.05 $ 17.28
Net income applicable to common shareholders per common share - Basic 5.04 0.05 5.09
Net income from continuing operations applicable to common shareholders per
common share - Diluted 16.98 0.05 17.03
Net income applicable to common shareholders per common share - Diluted 4.96 0.05 5.01
219 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss)
As Impact of As
($ in millions) reported change adjusted
Year ended December 31, 2022
Net loss $ (1,364) $ 22 $ (1,342)
Other comprehensive loss, after-tax
Changes in:
Unrealized net capital gains and losses (2,851) (2) (2,853)
Discount rate for reserve for future policy benefits — 228 228
Other comprehensive loss, after-tax (3,044) 226 (2,818)
Comprehensive loss (4,408) 248 (4,160)
Comprehensive loss attributable to Allstate $ (4,335) $ 248 $ (4,087)
Year ended December 31, 2021
Net income $ 1,566 $ 15 $ 1,581
Other comprehensive loss, after-tax
Changes in:
Unrealized net capital gains and losses (2,582) (1) (2,583)
Discount rate for reserve for future policy benefits — 49 49
Other comprehensive loss, after-tax (2,649) 48 (2,601)
Comprehensive loss (1,083) 63 (1,020)
Comprehensive loss attributable to Allstate $ (1,047) $ 63 $ (984)
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position
As Impact of As
($ in millions) reported change adjusted
December 31, 2022
Assets
Deferred policy acquisition costs $ 5,418 $ 24 $ 5,442
Reinsurance and indemnification recoverables, net 9,606 13 9,619
Deferred income taxes 386 (4) 382
Other assets, net 5,905 (1) 5,904
Total assets 97,957 32 97,989
Liabilities
Reserve for future policy benefits 1,273 49 1,322
Contractholder funds 897 (18) 879
Unearned premiums 22,311 (12) 22,299
Total liabilities 80,607 19 80,626
Equity
Retained income 50,954 16 50,970
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss):
Unrealized net capital gains and losses (2,253) (2) (2,255)
Discount rate for reserve for future policy benefits — (1) (1)
Total AOCI (2,389) (3) (2,392)
Total Allstate shareholders’ equity 17,475 13 17,488
Total equity 17,350 13 17,363
Total liabilities and equity $ 97,957 $ 32 $ 97,989
220 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity
As Impact of As
($ in millions) reported change adjusted
Year ended December 31, 2022
Retained income
Balance, beginning of period $ 53,294 $ (6) $ 53,288
Net loss (1,311) 22 (1,289)
Balance, end of period 50,954 16 50,970
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
Balance, beginning of period 655 (229) 426
Change in unrealized net capital gains and losses (2,851) (2) (2,853)
Change in discount rate for reserve for future policy benefits — 228 228
Balance, end of period (2,389) (3) (2,392)
Total Allstate shareholders’ equity 17,475 13 17,488
Total equity $ 17,350 $ 13 $ 17,363
Year ended December 31, 2021
Retained income
Balance, beginning of period $ 52,767 $ — $ 52,767
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — (21) (21)
Net income 1,599 15 1,614
Balance, end of period 53,294 (6) 53,288
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
Balance, beginning of period 3,304 — 3,304
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — (277) (277)
Change in unrealized net capital gains and losses (2,582) (1) (2,583)
Change in discount rate for reserve for future policy benefits — 49 49
Balance, end of period 655 (229) 426
Total Allstate shareholders’ equity 25,179 (235) 24,944
Total equity $ 25,127 $ (235) $ 24,892
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
As Impact of As
($ in millions) reported change adjusted
Year ended December 31, 2022
Cash flows from operating activities
Net loss $ (1,364) $ 22 $ (1,342)
Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating
activities:
Changes in:
Policy benefits and other insurance reserves 4,503 (58) 4,445
Unearned premiums 2,541 (2) 2,539
Deferred policy acquisition costs (702) (11) (713)
Reinsurance recoverables, net 408 43 451
Income taxes (721) 6 (715)
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 5,121 $ — $ 5,121
221 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
As Impact of As
($ in millions) reported change adjusted
Year ended December 31, 2021
Cash flows from operating activities
Net income $ 1,566 $ 15 $ 1,581
Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating
activities:
Changes in:
Policy benefits and other insurance reserves 2,432 12 2,444
Unearned premiums 1,618 (10) 1,608
Deferred policy acquisition costs (608) (16) (624)
Reinsurance recoverables, net (1,565) (5) (1,570)
Income taxes 349 4 353
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 5,116 $ — $ 5,116
Pending accounting standards Income tax disclosures In December 2023, the
FASB issued guidance enhancing various aspects of
Accounting for joint ventures In August 2023, the
income tax disclosures. The guidance now requires a
FASB issued guidance requiring a joint venture to
tabular reconciliation between statutory and effective
initially measure assets contributed and liabilities
income tax expense (benefit) with both amounts and
assumed at fair value as of the formation date. The
percentages for a list of required categories. For
new guidance will be applied prospectively for joint
certain required categories where an individual
ventures with a formation date on or after January 1,
category is at least five percent of the statutory tax
2025. The impact of the adoption is not expected to be
amount, the required category must be further broken
material to the Company’s results of operations or
out by nature and, for foreign tax effects, jurisdiction.
financial position.
Additionally, entities must disclose income taxes paid,
Segment reporting In November 2023, the FASB net of refunds received, broken out between federal,
issued guidance expanding segment disclosures by state and foreign, and amounts paid, net of refunds
requiring disclosure of significant segment expenses received, to an individual jurisdiction when five percent
that are regularly provided to the chief operating or more of the total income taxes paid, net of refunds
decision maker and included within each reported received.
measure of segment profit or loss, an amount and
All disclosure requirements in the guidance are
description of its composition for other segment items,
annual in nature, and the guidance is effective for
and interim disclosures of reportable segments’ profit
annual reporting periods beginning after December 15,
or loss and assets. The guidance is effective for annual
2024, with early adoption permitted. The guidance only
periods beginning after December 15, 2023 and interim
affects disclosures and will have no impact on the
periods beginning after December 15, 2024 and is to be
Company’s consolidated financial statements. The
applied retrospectively, with early adoption permitted.
Company is currently evaluating the impact of
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of
adopting the guidance on its disclosures.
adopting the guidance on its disclosures.
Note 3 Dispositions
Life and annuity business On October 1, 2021, the of a derivative and is accounted for on a fair value basis
Company closed the sale of Allstate Life Insurance with periodic changes in fair value reflected in
Company of New York (“ALNY”) to Wilton Reassurance earnings. There are no collateral requirements related
Company for $400 million. On November 1, 2021, the to the contingent consideration. See Note 7 for further
Company closed the sale of Allstate Life Insurance details.
Company (“ALIC”) and certain affiliates to entities
In 2021, the loss on disposition was $4.09 billion,
managed by Blackstone for total proceeds of $4 billion,
after-tax, and reflects purchase price adjustments
including a pre-close dividend of $1.25 billion paid by
associated with certain pre-close transactions
ALIC.
specified in the stock purchase agreements, changes
In connection with the sale of ALIC and certain in statutory capital and surplus prior to the closing
affiliates, the sale agreement included a provision date and the closing date equity of the sold entities
related to contingent consideration that may be determined under GAAP, excluding AOCI derecognized
earned over a ten-year period with the first potential related to the dispositions.
payment date commencing on January 1, 2026 and a
final potential payment date of January 1, 2035. The
contingent consideration is determined annually based
on the average ten-year Treasury rate over the
preceding three-year period compared to a designated
rate. The contingent consideration meets the definition
222 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Beginning in the first quarter of 2021, the assets and liabilities of the business were reclassified as held for sale and
results are presented as discontinued operations. This change was applied on a retrospective basis.
Financial results from discontinued operations
For the year
ended
December 31,
($ in millions) 2021
Revenues
Life premiums and contract charges $ 1,109
Net investment income 1,336
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives 195
Total revenues 2,640
Costs and expenses
Life contract benefits 1,315
Interest credited to contractholder funds 414
Amortization of DAC 87
Operating costs and expenses 163
Restructuring and related charges 31
Total costs and expenses 2,010
Amortization of deferred gain on reinsurance 4
Income from discontinued operations before income tax expense 634
Income tax expense 136
Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 498
Loss on disposition of operations (4,315)
Income tax benefit (224)
Loss on disposition of operations, net of tax (4,091)
(Loss) income from discontinued operations, net of tax $ (3,593)
Cash flows from discontinued operations
For the year
ended
December 31,
($ in millions) 2021
Net cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations $ 634
Net cash provided by investing activities from discontinued operations 984
Note 4 Reportable Segments
The Company’s chief operating decision maker the United States were $2.06 billion, $1.94 billion and
reviews financial performance and makes decisions $1.86 billion in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
about the allocation of resources for the five reportable
Run-off Property-Liabilityincludes results from
segments. These segments are described below and
property and casualty insurance coverage that
align with the Company’s key product and service
primarily relates to policies written during the 1960s
offerings.
through the mid-1980s.Our exposure to asbestos,
Allstate Protection principally offers private environmental and other run-off lines claims arises
passenger auto and homeowners insurance in the principally from direct excess commercial insurance,
United States and Canada, with earned premiums assumed reinsurance coverage, direct primary
accounting for 84.8% of Allstate’s 2023 consolidated commercial insurance and other businesses in run-off.
revenues. Allstate Protection primarily operates in the
Protection Services comprise Allstate Protection
U.S. (all 50 states and the District of Columbia (“D.C.”))
Plans, Allstate Dealer Services, Allstate Roadside, Arity
and Canada. For 2023, the top geographic locations for
and Allstate Identity Protection. Protection Services
statutory direct premiums for the Allstate Protection
offer consumer product protection plans, protection
segment were Texas, California, New York and Florida.
and insurance products (including vehicle service
No other jurisdiction accounted for more than 5% of
contracts, guaranteed asset protection, road hazard
statutory direct premiums for Allstate Protection.
tire and wheel and paintless dent repair protection),
Revenues from external customers generated outside
roadside assistance, device and mobile data collection
223 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
services and analytic solutions using automotive Measuring segment profit or loss
telematics information, identity theft protection and
The measure of segment profit or loss used in
remediation services. Protection Services primarily
evaluating performance is underwriting income for the
operates in the U.S. and Canada, with Allstate
Allstate Protection and Run-off Property-Liability and
Protection Plans also offering services in Europe,
adjusted net income for the Protection Services,
Australia and Asia. Revenues from external customers
Allstate Health and Benefits and Corporate and Other
generated outside the United States were $346 million,
segments.
$258 million and $232 million in 2023, 2022 and 2021,
respectively and relate to consumer product protection Underwriting income is calculated as premiums
plans sold primarily in the European Union and earned and other revenue, less claims and claims
Australia. expenses (“losses”), Shelter-in-Place Payback expense,
amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses,
Allstate Health and Benefits offers employer
amortization or impairment of purchased intangibles
voluntary benefits, group health and individual health
and restructuring and related charges as determined
products, including life, accident, critical illness,
using GAAP.
hospital indemnity, short-term disability and other
health products. Allstate Health and Benefits primarily Adjusted net income is net income (loss) applicable
operates in the U.S. (all 50 states and D.C.) and Canada. to common shareholders, excluding:
For 2023, the top geographic locations for statutory
direct accident, health and life insurance premiums • Net gains and losses on investments and derivatives
were Florida, Texas, and Georgia. No other jurisdiction • Pension and other postretirement remeasurement gains
accounted for more than 5% of statutory direct and losses
accident, health and life insurance premiums.
• Business combination expenses and the amortization
Revenues from external customers generated outside or impairment of purchased intangibles
the United States relate to voluntary accident and
• Income or loss from discontinued operations
health insurance sold in Canada and were not material.
• Gain or loss on disposition
Corporate and Other comprises debt service, other
• Adjustments for other significant non-recurring,
holding company activities and certain non-insurance
infrequent or unusual items, when (a) the nature of the
operations, including expenses associated with charge or gain is such that it is reasonably unlikely to
strategic initiatives, such as the Avail peer-to-peer car- recur within two years, or (b) there has been no similar
sharing initiative. charge or gain within the prior two years
• Income tax expense or benefit on reconciling items
Allstate Protection and Run-off Property-Liability
segments comprise Property-Liability. The Company
A reconciliation of these measures to net income
does not allocate investment income, net gains and
(loss) applicable to common shareholders is provided
losses on investments and derivatives, or assets to the
below.
Allstate Protection and Run-off Property-Liability
segments. Management reviews assets at the
Property-Liability, Protection Services, Allstate Health
and Benefits, and Corporate and Other levels for
decision-making purposes.
The accounting policies of the reportable
segments are the same as those described in Note 2.
The effects of intersegment transactions are
eliminated in the consolidated results. For segment
results, services provided by Protection Services to
Allstate Protection are not eliminated as management
considers those transactions in assessing the results of
the respective segments.
224 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Reportable segments financial performance
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Underwriting income (loss) by segment
Allstate Protection $ (2,090) $ (2,782) $ 1,785
Run-off Property-Liability (94) (129) (120)
Total Property-Liability (2,184) (2,911) 1,665
Adjusted net income (loss) by segment, after-tax
Protection Services 106 169 179
Allstate Health and Benefits 242 245 223
Corporate and Other (415) (422) (433)
Reconciling items
Property-Liability net investment income 2,218 2,190 3,118
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives (300) (1,072) 1,084
Pension and other postretirement remeasurement gains (losses) (9) (116) 644
Business combination expenses and amortization of purchased intangibles (1) (94) (113) (157)
Business combination fair value adjustment — — 6
Gain (loss) on disposition (2) 4 89 —
Non-recurring costs (3) (90) — —
Income tax benefit (expense) on reconciling items (4) 182 495 (1,270)
Total reconciling items 1,911 1,473 3,425
Income (loss) from discontinued operations — — (3,612)
Income tax benefit from discontinued operations — — 19
Total from discontinued operations $ — $ — $ (3,593)
Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest(5) (24) (52) (34)
Net (loss) income applicable to common shareholders $ (316) $ (1,394) $ 1,500
(1) Excludes amortization or impairment of purchased intangibles in Property-Liability, which is included above in underwriting
income.
(2) Includes $83 million related to the gain on sale of headquarters in the fourth quarter of 2022 reported as other revenue in
Corporate and Other segment.
(3) Relates to settlement costs for non-recurring litigation that is outside of the ordinary course of business. See Note 15 for additional
details.
(4)The tax computation of the reporting segments and income tax benefit (expense) on reconciling items to net income (loss) are
computed discretely based on the tax law of the jurisdictions applicable to the reporting entities.
(5) Reflects net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest in Property-Liability.
225 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Reportable segments revenue information
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Property-Liability
Insurance premiums
Auto $ 32,940 $ 29,715 $ 27,623
Homeowners 11,739 10,418 9,552
Other personal lines 2,387 2,159 2,077
Commercial lines 811 1,123 827
Other business lines 550 494 375
Allstate Protection 48,427 43,909 40,454
Run-off Property-Liability — — —
Total Property-Liability insurance premiums 48,427 43,909 40,454
Other revenue 1,545 1,416 1,437
Net investment income 2,218 2,190 3,118
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives (292) (877) 1,021
Total Property-Liability 51,898 46,638 46,030
Protection Services
Protection Plans 1,540 1,307 1,132
Roadside assistance 195 202 192
Protection and insurance products 508 486 440
Intersegment premiums and service fees (1) 138 149 175
Other revenue 319 347 354
Net investment income 73 48 43
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives — (52) 25
Total Protection Services 2,773 2,487 2,361
Allstate Health and Benefits
Employer voluntary benefits 1,001 1,033 1,040
Group health 440 385 350
Individual health 405 414 444
Other revenue 447 402 359
Net investment income 82 69 74
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives 3 (44) 7
Total Allstate Health and Benefits 2,378 2,259 2,274
Corporate and Other
Other revenue 89 179 22
Net investment income 105 96 58
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives (11) (99) 31
Total Corporate and Other 183 176 111
Intersegment eliminations (1) (138) (149) (175)
Consolidated revenues $ 57,094 $ 51,411 $ 50,601
(1) Intersegment insurance premiums and service fees are primarily related to Arity and Allstate Roadside and are eliminated in the
consolidated financial statements.
226 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Additional significant financial performance data
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Amortization of DAC
Property-Liability $ 6,070 $ 5,570 $ 5,313
Protection Services 1,058 928 795
Allstate Health and Benefits 150 136 128
Consolidated $ 7,278 $ 6,634 $ 6,236
Income tax expense (benefit)
Property-Liability $ (136) $ (427) $ 1,151
Protection Services 66 5 39
Allstate Health and Benefits 57 45 53
Corporate and Other (122) (111) 49
Consolidated $ (135) $ (488) $ 1,292
Interest expense is primarily incurred in the Corporate and Other segment. Capital expenditures for long-lived
assets are generally made in Property-Liability as the Company does not allocate assets to the Allstate Protection and
Run-off Property-Liability segments. A portion of these long-lived assets are used by entities included in the Protection
Services, Allstate Health and Benefits and Corporate and Other segments and, accordingly, are charged to expenses in
proportion to their use.
Reportable segment total assets, investments and deferred policy acquisition costs
As of December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022
Assets
Property-Liability $ 88,568 $ 82,744
Protection Services 7,292 6,922
Allstate Health and Benefits 4,032 3,752
Corporate and Other 3,470 4,571
Consolidated $ 103,362 $ 97,989
Investments (1)
Property-Liability $ 59,540 $ 54,011
Protection Services 2,180 1,917
Allstate Health and Benefits 2,182 1,872
Corporate and Other 2,775 4,029
Consolidated $ 66,677 $ 61,829
Deferred policy acquisition costs
Property-Liability $ 2,378 $ 2,146
Protection Services 3,022 2,768
Allstate Health and Benefits 540 528
Consolidated $ 5,940 $ 5,442
(1) The balances reflect the elimination of related party investments between segments.
Note 5 Investments
Portfolio composition
As of December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022
Fixed income securities, at fair value $ 48,865 $ 42,485
Equity securities, at fair value 2,411 4,567
Mortgage loans, net 822 762
Limited partnership interests 8,380 8,114
Short-term investments, at fair value 5,144 4,173
Other investments, net 1,055 1,728
Total $ 66,677 $ 61,829
227 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Amortized cost, gross unrealized gains (losses) and fair value for fixed income securities
Amortized Gross unrealized Fair
($ in millions) cost, net Gains Losses value
December 31, 2023
U.S. government and agencies $ 8,624 $ 114 $ (119) $ 8,619
Municipal 6,049 109 (152) 6,006
Corporate 31,951 397 (1,143) 31,205
Foreign government 1,286 17 (13) 1,290
ABS 1,739 13 (7) 1,745
Total fixed income securities $ 49,649 $ 650 $ (1,434) $ 48,865
December 31, 2022
U.S. government and agencies $ 8,123 $ 6 $ (231) $ 7,898
Municipal 6,500 36 (326) 6,210
Corporate 28,562 46 (2,345) 26,263
Foreign government 997 — (40) 957
ABS 1,188 4 (35) 1,157
Total fixed income securities $ 45,370 $ 92 $ (2,977) $ 42,485
Scheduled maturities for fixed income securities
As of December 31, 2023 As of December 31, 2022
Amortized Fair Amortized Fair
($ in millions) cost, net value cost, net value
Due in one year or less $ 3,422 $ 3,374 $ 2,870 $ 2,836
Due after one year through five years 23,218 22,614 26,546 25,217
Due after five years through ten years 12,553 12,273 11,035 9,870
Due after ten years 8,717 8,859 3,731 3,405
47,910 47,120 44,182 41,328
ABS 1,739 1,745 1,188 1,157
Total $ 49,649 $ 48,865 $ 45,370 $ 42,485
Actual maturities may differ from those scheduled as a result of calls and make-whole payments by the issuers.
ABS is shown separately because of potential prepayment of principal prior to contractual maturity dates.
Net investment income
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Fixed income securities $ 1,761 $ 1,255 $ 1,148
Equity securities 75 132 100
Mortgage loans 35 33 43
Limited partnership interests 499 985 1,973
Short-term investments 253 82 5
Other investments 169 162 195
Investment income, before expense 2,792 2,649 3,464
Investment expense (314) (246) (171)
Net investment income $ 2,478 $ 2,403 $ 3,293
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives by asset type
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Fixed income securities $ (540) $ (875) $ 425
Equity securities 282 (900) 520
Mortgage loans (4) (1) 20
Limited partnership interests 4 (191) (52)
Derivatives (84) 874 49
Other investments 42 21 122
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives $ (300) $ (1,072) $ 1,084
228 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives by transaction type
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Sales $ (433) $ (832) $ 578
Credit losses (99) (54) (42)
Valuation change of equity investments (1) 316 (1,060) 499
Valuation change and settlements of derivatives (84) 874 49
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives $ (300) $ (1,072) $ 1,084
(1) Includes valuation change of equity securities and certain limited partnership interests where the underlying assets are
predominately public equity securities.
Gross realized gains (losses) on sales of fixed income securities
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Gross realized gains $ 115 $ 136 $ 587
Gross realized losses (633) (1,004) (158)
Net appreciation (decline) recognized in net income for assets that are still held
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Equity securities $ 151 $ (466) $ 377
Limited partnership interests carried at fair value 85 (5) 435
Total $ 236 $ (471) $ 812
Credit losses recognized in net income
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Assets
Fixed income securities:
Corporate $ (24) $ (6) $ (5)
ABS 2 (1) 1
Total fixed income securities (22) (7) (4)
Mortgage loans (4) (1) 18
Limited partnership interests (25) (4) (34)
Other investments
Bank loans (18) (26) (22)
Real estate (29) (16) —
Total credit losses by asset type $ (98) $ (54) $ (42)
Liabilities
Commitments to fund commercial mortgage loans and bank loans (1) — —
Total $ (99) $ (54) $ (42)
229 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Unrealized net capital gains and losses included in AOCI
($ in millions) Fair Gross unrealized Unrealized net
December 31, 2023 value Gains Losses gains (losses)
Fixed income securities $ 48,865 $ 650 $ (1,434) $ (784)
Short-term investments 5,144 — (1) (1)
Derivative instruments — — (2) (2)
Limited partnership interests (1) (4)
Unrealized net capital gains and losses, pre-tax (791)
Reclassification of noncontrolling interest 13
Deferred income taxes 174
Unrealized net capital gains and losses, after-tax $ (604)
December 31, 2022
Fixed income securities $ 42,485 $ 92 $ (2,977) $ (2,885)
Short-term investments 4,173 — (1) (1)
Derivative instruments — — (3) (3)
Limited partnership interests 2
Unrealized net capital gains and losses, pre-tax (2,887)
Reclassification of noncontrolling interest 23
Deferred income taxes 609
Unrealized net capital gains and losses, after-tax $ (2,255)
(1) Unrealized net capital gains and losses for limited partnership interests represent the Company’s share of EMA limited
partnerships’ OCI. Fair value and gross unrealized gains and losses are not applicable.
Change in unrealized net capital gains (losses)
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Fixed income securities $ 2,101 $ (3,645) $ (1,771)
Short-term investments — (1) —
Derivative instruments 1 — —
Limited partnerships interests (6) 3 —
Investments classified as held for sale — — (2,369)
Total 2,096 (3,643) (4,140)
Reclassification of noncontrolling interest and other (1) (10) 19 864
Deferred income taxes (435) 771 693
Increase (decrease) in unrealized net capital gains and losses, after-tax $ 1,651 $ (2,853) $ (2,583)
(1) 2021 includes changes in amounts by which the amortization of DAC would increase or decrease if the unrealized gains or losses in
the respective product portfolios were realized.
230 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Mortgage loans The Company’s mortgage loans are commercial mortgage loans collateralized by a variety of
commercial real estate property types located across the United States and totaled $822 million and $762 million, net
of credit loss allowance, as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Substantially all of the commercial mortgage
loans are non-recourse to the borrower.
Principal geographic distribution of commercial real estate exceeding 5% of the mortgage loans portfolio
As of December 31,
(% of mortgage loan portfolio carrying value) 2023 2022
California 21.9 % 24.9 %
Texas 17.9 16.3
Florida 7.5 6.4
Washington 5.8 7.3
Tennessee 5.6 6.1
Ohio 5.0 5.6
Types of properties collateralizing the mortgage loan portfolio
As of December 31,
(% of mortgage loan portfolio carrying value) 2023 2022
Apartment complex 30.6 % 30.2 %
Retail 25.0 27.4
Warehouse 20.0 16.0
Office 15.2 17.5
Other 9.2 8.9
Total 100.0 % 100.0 %
Contractual maturities of the mortgage loan portfolio
As of December 31, 2023
Number of Amortized
($ in millions) loans cost, net Percent
2024 5 $ 88 10.7 %
2025 6 70 8.5
2026 11 166 20.2
2027 6 58 7.1
Thereafter 29 440 53.5
Total 57 $ 822 100.0 %
Limited partnership interests include interests in private equity funds, real estate funds and other funds. Principal
factors influencing carrying value appreciation or decline include operating performance, comparable public company
earnings multiples, capitalization rates and the economic environment. For equity method limited partnerships, the
Company recognizes an impairment loss when evidence demonstrates that the loss is other than temporary. Evidence
of a loss in value that is other than temporary may include the absence of an ability to recover the carrying amount of
the investment or the inability of the investee to sustain a level of earnings that would justify the carrying amount of
the investment. Changes in fair value limited partnerships are recorded through net investment income and therefore
are not tested for impairment.
Carrying value for limited partnership interests
As of December 31, 2023 As of December 31, 2022
($ in millions) EMA Fair Value Total EMA Fair Value Total
Private equity $ 6,015 $ 1,139 $ 7,154 $ 5,372 $ 1,217 $ 6,589
Real estate 1,059 26 1,085 1,013 29 1,042
Other (1) 141 — 141 483 — 483
Total $ 7,215 $ 1,165 $ 8,380 $ 6,868 $ 1,246 $ 8,114
(1) Other consists of certain limited partnership interests where the underlying assets are predominately public equity and debt
securities.
231 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Municipal bonds The Company maintains a diversified portfolio of municipal bonds, including tax exempt and taxable
securities, which totaled $6.01 billion and $6.21 billion as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The balance as
of December 31, 2023 includes $4.85 billion of tax exempt securities. The municipal bond portfolio includes general
obligations of state and local issuers and revenue bonds (including pre-refunded bonds, which are bonds for which an
irrevocable trust has been established to fund the remaining payments of principal and interest).
Principal geographic distribution of municipal bond issuers exceeding 5% of the portfolio
As of December 31,
(% of municipal bond portfolio carrying value) 2023 2022
Texas 12.8 % 9.6 %
California 7.7 8.5
New York 6.3 6.7
Illinois 5.4 5.6
Pennsylvania 5.4 5.4
Florida 4.8 5.0
Short-term investments Short-term investments, including money market funds, commercial paper, U.S. Treasury
bills and other short-term investments, are carried at fair value. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, the fair value of
short-term investments totaled $5.14 billion and $4.17 billion, respectively.
Other investments Other investments primarily consist of bank loans, real estate, policy loans and derivatives. Bank
loans are primarily senior secured corporate loans and are carried at amortized cost, net. Policy loans are carried at
unpaid principal balances. Real estate is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. Derivatives are carried at fair
value.
Other investments by asset type
As of December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022
Bank loans, net $ 224 $ 686
Real estate 709 813
Policy loans 119 120
Derivatives 1 1
Other 2 108
Total $ 1,055 $ 1,728
Concentration of credit risk As of December 31, 2023, Other investment information Included in fixed
the Company is not exposed to any credit income securities are below investment grade assets
concentration risk of a single issuer and its affiliates totaling $4.18 billion and $4.10 billion as of
greater than 10% of the Company’s shareholders’ December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
equity, other than the U.S. government and its
As of December 31, 2023, fixed income securities
agencies.
and short-term investments with a carrying value of
Securities loaned The Company’s business activities $201 million were on deposit with regulatory authorities
include securities lending programs with third parties, as required by law.
mostly large banks. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022,
As of December 31, 2023, the carrying value of
fixed income and equity securities with a carrying value
fixed income securities and other investments that
of $1.83 billion and $1.93 billion, respectively, were on
were non-income producing was $92 million.
loan under these agreements. Interest income on
collateral, net of fees, was zero, $6 million and $1
million in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
232 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Portfolio monitoring and credit losses If the Company does not expect to receive cash
flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost
Fixed income securities The Company has a
basis of the fixed income security, a credit loss
comprehensive portfolio monitoring process to identify
allowance is recorded in earnings for the shortfall in
and evaluate each fixed income security that may
expected cash flows; however, the amortized cost, net
require a credit loss allowance.
of the credit loss allowance, may not be lower than the
For each fixed income security in an unrealized loss fair value of the security. The portion of the unrealized
position, the Company assesses whether management loss related to factors other than credit remains
with the appropriate authority has made the decision classified in AOCI. If the Company determines that the
to sell or whether it is more likely than not the fixed income security does not have sufficient cash
Company will be required to sell the security before flow or other information to estimate a recovery value
recovery of the amortized cost basis for reasons such for the security, the Company may conclude that the
as liquidity, contractual or regulatory purposes. If a entire decline in fair value is deemed to be credit
security meets either of these criteria, any existing related and the loss is recorded in earnings.
credit loss allowance would be written-off against the
When a security is sold or otherwise disposed or
amortized cost basis of the asset along with any
when the security is deemed uncollectible and written
remaining unrealized losses, with incremental losses
off, the Company removes amounts previously
recorded in earnings.
recognized in the credit loss allowance. Recoveries
If the Company has not made the decision to sell after write-offs are recognized when received. Accrued
the fixed income security and it is not more likely than interest excluded from the amortized cost of fixed
not the Company will be required to sell the fixed income securities totaled $495 million and $389 million
income security before recovery of its amortized cost as of December 31, 2023, and 2022, respectively, and is
basis, the Company evaluates whether it expects to reported within the accrued investment income line of
receive cash flows sufficient to recover the entire the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. The
amortized cost basis of the security. The Company Company monitors accrued interest and writes off
calculates the estimated recovery value based on the amounts when they are not expected to be received.
best estimate of future cash flows considering past
The Company’s portfolio monitoring process
events, current conditions and reasonable and
includes a quarterly review of all securities to identify
supportable forecasts. The estimated future cash flows
instances where the fair value of a security compared
are discounted at the security’s current effective rate
to its amortized cost is below internally established
and is compared to the amortized cost of the security.
thresholds. The process also includes the monitoring of
The determination of cash flow estimates is other credit loss indicators such as ratings, ratings
inherently subjective, and methodologies may vary downgrades and payment defaults. The securities
depending on facts and circumstances specific to the identified, in addition to other securities for which the
security. All reasonably available information relevant Company may have a concern, are evaluated for
to the collectability of the security is considered when potential credit losses using all reasonably available
developing the estimate of cash flows expected to be information relevant to the collectability or recovery of
collected. That information generally includes, but is the security. Inherent in the Company’s evaluation of
not limited to, the remaining payment terms of the credit losses for these securities are assumptions and
security, prepayment speeds, the financial condition estimates about the financial condition and future
and future earnings potential of the issue or issuer, earnings potential of the issue or issuer. Some of the
expected defaults, expected recoveries, the value of factors that may be considered in evaluating whether a
underlying collateral, origination vintage year, decline in fair value requires a credit loss allowance are:
geographic concentration of underlying collateral, 1) the financial condition, near-term and long-term
available reserves or escrows, current subordination prospects of the issue or issuer, including relevant
levels, third-party guarantees and other credit industry specific market conditions and trends,
enhancements. Other information, such as industry geographic location and implications of rating agency
analyst reports and forecasts, credit ratings, financial actions and offering prices; 2) the specific reasons that
condition of the bond insurer for insured fixed income a security is in an unrealized loss position, including
securities, and other market data relevant to the overall market conditions which could affect liquidity;
realizability of contractual cash flows, may also be and 3) the extent to which the fair value has been less
considered. The estimated fair value of collateral will than amortized cost.
be used to estimate recovery value if the Company
determines that the security is dependent on the
liquidation of collateral for ultimate settlement.
233 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Rollforward of credit loss allowance for fixed income securities
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Beginning balance $ (13) $ (6) $ (2)
Credit losses on securities for which credit losses not previously reported (11) (1) (5)
Net (increases) decreases related to credit losses previously reported (11) (6) 1
(Increase) decrease of allowance related to sales and other (1) — —
Write-offs — — —
Ending balance $ (36) $ (13) $ (6)
Components of credit loss allowance as of December 31
Corporate bonds $ (35) $ (11) $ (6)
ABS (1) (2) —
Total $ (36) $ (13) $ (6)
Gross unrealized losses and fair value by type and length of time held in a continuous unrealized loss position (1)
Less than 12 months 12 months or more
Number Number Total
of Fair Unrealized of Fair Unrealized unrealized
($ in millions) issues value losses issues value losses losses
December 31, 2023
Fixed income securities
U.S. government and agencies 63 $ 2,554 $ (38) 117 $ 2,513 $ (81) $ (119)
Municipal 271 400 (4) 1,784 2,245 (148) (152)
Corporate 251 2,225 (48) 2,106 17,319 (1,095) (1,143)
Foreign government 7 31 — 75 356 (13) (13)
ABS 19 64 (1) 150 584 (6) (7)
Total fixed income securities 611 $ 5,274 $ (91) 4,232 $ 23,017 $ (1,343) $ (1,434)
Investment grade fixed income securities 568 $ 5,061 $ (83) 3,864 $ 20,429 $ (1,151) $ (1,234)
Below investment grade fixed income securities 43 213 (8) 368 2,588 (192) (200)
Total fixed income securities 611 $ 5,274 $ (91) 4,232 $ 23,017 $ (1,343) $ (1,434)
December 31, 2022
Fixed income securities
U.S. government and agencies 112 $ 4,900 $ (138) 75 $ 2,393 $ (93) $ (231)
Municipal 3,015 3,944 (215) 507 740 (111) (326)
Corporate 2,085 18,072 (1,389) 845 6,105 (956) (2,345)
Foreign government 74 739 (22) 42 200 (18) (40)
ABS 194 874 (27) 83 109 (8) (35)
Total fixed income securities 5,480 $ 28,529 $ (1,791) 1,552 $ 9,547 $ (1,186) $ (2,977)
Investment grade fixed income securities 4,959 $ 25,487 $ (1,409) 1,437 $ 8,791 $ (1,009) $ (2,418)
Below investment grade fixed income securities 521 3,042 (382) 115 756 (177) (559)
Total fixed income securities 5,480 $ 28,529 $ (1,791) 1,552 $ 9,547 $ (1,186) $ (2,977)
(1) Includes fixed income securities with fair values of $32 million and $10 million and unrealized losses of $3 million and $5 million
with credit loss allowances of $8 million and $11 million as of December 31, 2023, and 2022, respectively.
234 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Gross unrealized losses by unrealized loss position and credit quality as of December 31, 2023
Investment Below investment
($ in millions) grade grade Total
Fixed income securities with unrealized loss position less than
20% of amortized cost, net (1) (2) $ (1,167) $ (173) $ (1,340)
Fixed income securities with unrealized loss position greater than
or equal to 20% of amortized cost, net (3) (4) (67) (27) (94)
Total unrealized losses $ (1,234) $ (200) $ (1,434)
(1) Below investment grade fixed income securities include $5 million that have been in an unrealized loss position for less than
twelve months.
(2) Related to securities with an unrealized loss position less than 20% of amortized cost, net, the degree of which suggests that
these securities do not pose a high risk of having credit losses.
(3) Below investment grade fixed income securities include $25 million that have been in an unrealized loss position for a period of
twelve or more consecutive months.
(4)Evaluated based on factors such as discounted cash flows and the financial condition and near-term and long-term prospects of
the issue or issuer and were determined to have adequate resources to fulfill contractual obligations.
Investment grade is defined as a security having a Loans The Company establishes a credit loss
National Association of Insurance Commissioners allowance for mortgage loans and bank loans when
(“NAIC”) designation of 1 or 2, which is comparable to a they are originated or purchased, and for unfunded
rating of Aaa, Aa, A or Baa from Moody’s or AAA, AA, A commitments unless they are unconditionally
or BBB from S&P Global Ratings (“S&P”), or a cancellable by the Company. The Company uses a
comparable internal rating if an externally provided probability of default and loss given default model for
rating is not available. Market prices for certain mortgage loans and bank loans to estimate current
securities may have credit spreads which imply higher expected credit losses that considers all relevant
or lower credit quality than the current third-party information available including past events, current
rating. Unrealized losses on investment grade conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts
securities are principally related to an increase in over the life of an asset. The Company also considers
market yields which may include increased risk-free such factors as historical losses, expected
interest rates or wider credit spreads since the time of prepayments and various economic factors. For
initial purchase. The unrealized losses are expected to mortgage loans the Company considers origination
reverse as the securities approach maturity. vintage year and property level information such as
debt service coverage, property type, property location
ABS in an unrealized loss position were evaluated
and collateral value. For bank loans the Company
based on actual and projected collateral losses relative
considers the credit rating of the borrower, credit
to the securities’ positions in the respective
spreads and type of loan. After the reasonable and
securitization trusts, security specific expectations of
supportable forecast period, the Company’s model
cash flows, and credit ratings. This evaluation also
reverts to historical loss trends.
takes into consideration credit enhancement,
measured in terms of (i) subordination from other Loans are evaluated on a pooled basis when they
classes of securities in the trust that are contractually share similar risk characteristics. The Company
obligated to absorb losses before the class of security monitors loans through a quarterly credit monitoring
the Company owns, and (ii) the expected impact of process to determine when they no longer share
other structural features embedded in the similar risk characteristics and are to be evaluated
securitization trust beneficial to the class of securities individually when estimating credit losses.
the Company owns, such as overcollateralization and
Loans are written off against their corresponding
excess spread. Municipal bonds in an unrealized loss
allowances when there is no reasonable expectation of
position were evaluated based on the underlying credit
recovery. If a loan recovers after a write-off, the
quality of the primary obligor, obligation type and
estimate of expected credit losses includes the
quality of the underlying assets.
expected recovery.
As of December 31, 2023, the Company has not
Accrual of income is suspended for loans that are
made the decision to sell and it is not more likely than
in default or when full and timely collection of principal
not the Company will be required to sell fixed income
and interest payments is not probable. Accrued
securities with unrealized losses before recovery of the
income receivable is monitored for recoverability and
amortized cost basis.
when not expected to be collected is written off
through net investment income. Cash receipts on loans
on non-accrual status are generally recorded as a
reduction of amortized cost.
235 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Accrued interest is excluded from the amortized amortized cost. An alternative approach may be
cost of loans and is reported within the accrued utilized to estimate credit losses using the present
investment income line of the Consolidated value of the loan’s expected future repayment cash
Statements of Financial Position. flows discounted at the loan’s current effective interest
rate.
Accrued interest
As of December 31, Individual loan credit loss allowances are adjusted
for subsequent changes in the fair value of the
($ in millions) 2023 2022
collateral less costs to sell, when applicable, or present
Mortgage loans $ 3 $ 3
value of the loan’s expected future repayment cash
Bank Loans 3 3
flows.
Mortgage loans When it is determined a mortgage Debt service coverage ratio is considered a key
loan shall be evaluated individually, the Company uses credit quality indicator when mortgage loan credit loss
various methods to estimate credit losses on individual allowances are estimated. Debt service coverage ratio
loans such as using collateral value less estimated represents the amount of estimated cash flow from the
costs to sell where applicable, including when property available to the borrower to meet principal
foreclosure is probable or when repayment is expected and interest payment obligations. Debt service
to be provided substantially through the operation or coverage ratio estimates are updated annually or more
sale of the collateral and the borrower is experiencing frequently if conditions are warranted based on the
financial difficulty. When collateral value is used, the Company’s credit monitoring process.
mortgage loans may not have a credit loss allowance
when the fair value of the collateral exceeds the loan’s
Mortgage loans amortized cost by debt service coverage ratio distribution and year of origination
December 31, 2023 December 31, 2022
2018
and
($ in millions) prior 2019 2020 2021 2022 Current Total Total
Below 1.0 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 13 $ — $ 13 $ 18
1.0 - 1.25 27 12 — — — 2 41 42
1.26 - 1.50 24 4 10 — 30 65 133 151
Above 1.50 65 220 42 184 59 76 646 558
Amortized cost before
allowance $ 116 $ 236 $ 52 $ 184 $ 102 $ 143 $ 833 $ 769
Allowance (11) (7)
Amortized cost, net $ 822 $ 762
Mortgage loans with a debt service coverage ratio temporary, or there are other risk mitigating
below 1.0 that are not considered impaired primarily circumstances such as additional collateral, escrow
relate to instances where the borrower has the balances or borrower guarantees. Payments on all
financial capacity to fund the revenue shortfalls from mortgage loans were current as of December 31, 2023,
the properties for the foreseeable term, the decrease 2022 and 2021.
in cash flows from the properties is considered
Rollforward of credit loss allowance for mortgage loans
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Beginning balance $ (7) $ (6) $ (67)
Net (increases) decreases related to credit losses (4) (1) 40
Reduction of allowance related to sales — — 21
Write-offs — — —
Ending balance $ (11) $ (7) $ (6)
Bank loans When it is determined a bank loan shall Credit ratings of the borrower are considered a key
be evaluated individually, the Company uses various credit quality indicator when bank loan credit loss
methods to estimate credit losses on individual loans allowances are estimated. The ratings are either
such as the present value of the loan’s expected future received from the Securities Valuation Office of the
repayment cash flows discounted at the loan’s current NAIC based on availability of applicable ratings from
effective interest rate. rating agencies on the NAIC credit rating provider list
or a comparable internal rating. The year of origination
is determined to be the year in which the asset is
acquired.
236 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Bank loans amortized cost by credit rating and year of origination
($ in millions) December 31, 2023 December 31, 2022
2018
and
prior 2019 2020 2021 2022 Current Total Total
NAIC 2 / BBB $ — $ — $ 2 $ 6 $ — $ 1 $ 9 $ 54
NAIC 3 / BB — — — 21 — 17 38 266
NAIC 4 / B — 17 1 33 16 86 153 329
NAIC 5-6 / CCC and below 21 — — 11 5 9 46 94
Amortized cost before
allowance $ 21 $ 17 $ 3 $ 71 $ 21 $ 113 $ 246 $ 743
Allowance (22) (57)
Amortized cost, net $ 224 $ 686
Rollforward of credit loss allowance for bank loans
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Beginning balance $ (57) $ (61) $ (67)
Net increases related to credit losses (18) (26) (15)
Reduction of allowance related to sales 50 30 21
Write-offs 3 — —
Ending balance $ (22) $ (57) $ (61)
Note 6 Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities
Fair value is defined as the price that would be internally developed pricing models or inputs that are
received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in unobservable in the market, the determination of fair
an orderly transaction between market participants at value requires more judgment. The degree of
the measurement date. The hierarchy for inputs used judgment exercised by the Company in determining
in determining fair value maximizes the use of fair value is typically greatest for instruments
observable inputs and minimizes the use of categorized in Level 3. In many instances, valuation
unobservable inputs by requiring that observable inputs used to measure fair value fall into different
inputs be used when available. Assets and liabilities levels of the fair value hierarchy. The category level in
recorded on the Consolidated Statements of Financial the fair value hierarchy is determined based on the
Position at fair value are categorized in the fair value lowest level input that is significant to the fair value
hierarchy based on the observability of inputs to the measurement in its entirety. The Company uses prices
valuation techniques as follows: and inputs that are current as of the measurement
date, including during periods of market disruption. In
Level 1: Assets and liabilities whose values are based
periods of market disruption, the ability to observe
on unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or
prices and inputs may be reduced for many
liabilities in an active market that the Company can
instruments.
access.
The Company is responsible for the determination
Level 2: Assets and liabilities whose values are based
of fair value and the supporting assumptions and
on the following:
methodologies. The Company gains assurance that
(a) Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in assets and liabilities are appropriately valued through
active markets; the execution of various processes and controls
designed to ensure the overall reasonableness and
(b)Quoted prices for identical or similar assets or
consistent application of valuation methodologies,
liabilities in markets that are not active; or
including inputs and assumptions, and compliance with
(c) Valuation models whose inputs are observable, accounting standards. For fair values received from
directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term third parties or internally estimated, the Company’s
of the asset or liability. processes and controls are designed to ensure that the
valuation methodologies are appropriate and
Level 3:Assets and liabilities whose values are based consistently applied, the inputs and assumptions are
on prices or valuation techniques that require inputs reasonable and consistent with the objective of
that are both unobservable and significant to the determining fair value, and the fair values are
overall fair value measurement. Unobservable inputs accurately recorded. For example, on a continuing
reflect the Company’s estimates of the assumptions basis, the Company assesses the reasonableness of
that market participants would use in valuing the individual fair values that have stale security prices or
assets and liabilities. that exceed certain thresholds as compared to
previous fair values received from valuation service
The availability of observable inputs varies by
providers or brokers or derived from internal models.
instrument. In situations where fair value is based on
237 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
The Company performs procedures to understand and Summary of significant inputs and valuation
assess the methodologies, processes and controls of techniques for Level 2 and Level 3 assets and
valuation service providers. In addition, the Company liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis
may validate the reasonableness of fair values by
Level 2 measurements
comparing information obtained from valuation service
providers or brokers to other third-party valuation • Fixed income securities:
sources for selected securities. The Company performs
U.S. government and agencies, municipal,
ongoing price validation procedures such as back-
corporate - public and foreign government: The
testing of actual sales, which corroborate the various
primary inputs to the valuation include quoted
inputs used in internal models to market observable
prices for identical or similar assets in markets that
data. When fair value determinations are expected to
are not active, contractual cash flows, benchmark
be more variable, the Company validates them through
yields and credit spreads.
reviews by members of management who have
relevant expertise and who are independent of those Corporate - privately placed: Privately placed are
charged with executing investment transactions. valued using a discounted cash flow model that is
widely accepted in the financial services industry
The Company has two types of situations where
and uses market observable inputs and inputs
investments are classified as Level 3 in the fair value
derived principally from, or corroborated by,
hierarchy:
observable market data. The primary inputs to the
(1) Specific inputs significant to the fair value discounted cash flow model include an interest
estimation models are not market observable. This rate yield curve, as well as published credit
primarily occurs in the Company’s use of broker spreads for similar assets in markets that are not
quotes to value certain securities where the inputs active that incorporate the credit quality and
have not been corroborated to be market industry sector of the issuer.
observable, and the use of valuation models that
Corporate - privately placed also includes
use significant non-market observable inputs.
redeemable preferred stock that are valued using
(2) Quotes continue to be received from independent quoted prices for identical or similar assets in
third-party valuation service providers and all markets that are not active, contractual cash flows,
significant inputs are market observable; however, benchmark yields, underlying stock prices and
there has been a significant decrease in the credit spreads.
volume and level of activity for the asset when
ABS: The primary inputs to the valuation include
compared to normal market activity such that the
quoted prices for identical or similar assets in
degree of market observability has declined to a
markets that are not active, contractual cash flows,
point where categorization as a Level 3
benchmark yields, collateral performance, and
measurement is considered appropriate. The
credit spreads. Certain ABS are valued based on
indicators considered in determining whether a
non-binding broker quotes whose inputs have
significant decrease in the volume and level of
been corroborated to be market observable.
activity for a specific asset has occurred include
Residential mortgage-backed securities, included
the level of new issuances in the primary market,
in ABS, use prepayment speeds as a primary input
trading volume in the secondary market, the level
for valuation.
of credit spreads over historical levels, applicable
bid-ask spreads, and price consensus among • Equity securities:The primary inputs to the
market participants and other pricing sources. valuation include quoted prices or quoted net
asset values for identical or similar assets in
Certain assets are not carried at fair value on a
markets that are not active.
recurring basis, including mortgage loans, bank loans,
real estate and policy loans and are only included in • Short-term:The primary inputs to the valuation
the fair value hierarchy disclosure when the individual include quoted prices for identical or similar assets
investment is reported at fair value. in markets that are not active, contractual cash
flows, benchmark yields and credit spreads.
In determining fair value, the Company principally
uses the market approach which generally utilizes • Other investments:Free-standing exchange listed
market transaction data for the same or similar derivatives that are not actively traded are valued
instruments. To a lesser extent, the Company uses the based on quoted prices for identical instruments in
income approach which involves determining fair markets that are not active.
values from discounted cash flow methodologies. For
the majority of Level 2 and Level 3 valuations, a Over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives, including
combination of the market and income approaches is interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, total
used. return swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts,
certain options and certain credit default swaps,
are valued using models that rely on inputs such as
interest rate yield curves, implied volatilities, index
price levels, currency rates, and credit spreads that
are observable for substantially the full term of the
contract. The valuation techniques underlying the
238 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
models are widely accepted in the financial • Other assets: Includes the contingent
services industry and do not involve significant consideration provision in the sale agreement for
judgment. ALIC which meets the definition of a derivative.
This derivative is valued internally using a model
Level 3 measurements
that includes stochastically determined cash flows
• Fixed income securities: and inputs that include spot and forward interest
rates, volatility, corporate credit spreads and a
Municipal: Comprise municipal bonds that are not
liquidity discount. This derivative is categorized as
rated by third-party credit rating agencies. The
Level 3 due to the significance of non-market
primary inputs to the valuation of these municipal
observable inputs.
bonds include quoted prices for identical or similar
assets that are not market observable, contractual • Assets held for sale: Comprise municipal, corporate
cash flows, benchmark yields and credit spreads. and ABS fixed income securities and equity
Also included are municipal bonds valued based on securities. The valuation is based on the respective
non-binding broker quotes where the inputs have asset type as described above.
not been corroborated to be market observable
• Liabilities held for sale: Comprise derivatives
and municipal bonds in default valued based on
embedded in certain life and annuity contracts
the present value of expected cash flows.
which are valued internally using models widely
Corporate - public and privately placed and accepted in the financial services industry that
ABS: Primarily valued based on non-binding broker determine a single best estimate of fair value for
quotes where the inputs have not been the embedded derivatives within a block of
corroborated to be market observable. Other contractholder liabilities. The models primarily use
inputs for corporate fixed income securities stochastically determined cash flows based on the
include an interest rate yield curve, as well as contractual elements of embedded derivatives,
published credit spreads for similar assets that projected option cost and applicable market data,
incorporate the credit quality and industry sector such as interest rate yield curves and equity index
of the issuer. volatility assumptions. These are categorized as
Level 3 as a result of the significance of non-
• Equity securities:The primary inputs to the
market observable inputs.
valuation include quoted prices or quoted net
asset values for identical or similar assets that are Assets measured at fair value on a non-recurring
not market observable. basis
• Short-term:For certain short-term investments, Comprise long-lived assets to be disposed of by
amortized cost is used as the best estimate of fair sale, including real estate, that are written down to fair
value. value less costs to sell and bank loans written down to
fair value in connection with recognizing credit losses.
• Other investments:Certain OTC derivatives, such
as interest rate caps, certain credit default swaps Investments excluded from the fair value hierarchy
and certain options (including swaptions), are
Limited partnerships carried at fair value, which do
valued using models that are widely accepted in
not have readily determinable fair values, use NAV
the financial services industry. These are
provided by the investees and are excluded from the
categorized as Level 3 as a result of the
fair value hierarchy. These investments are generally
significance of non-market observable inputs such
not redeemable by the investees and generally cannot
as volatility. Other primary inputs include interest
be sold without approval of the general partner. The
rate yield curves and credit spreads and quoted
Company receives distributions of income and
prices for identical or similar assets in markets that
proceeds from the liquidation of the underlying assets
exhibit less liquidity relative to those markets
of the investees, which usually takes place in years 4-9
supporting Level 2 fair value measurements.
of the typical contractual life of 10-12 years. As of
December 31, 2023, the Company has commitments to
invest $175 million in these limited partnership
interests.
239 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value
December 31, 2023
Quoted prices
in active Significant
markets for other Significant Counterparty
identical observable unobservable and cash
assets inputs inputs collateral
($ in millions) (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) netting Total
Assets
Fixed income securities:
U.S. government and agencies $ 8,606 $ 13 $ — $ 8,619
Municipal — 5,995 11 6,006
Corporate - public — 23,272 26 23,298
Corporate - privately placed — 7,849 58 7,907
Foreign government — 1,290 — 1,290
ABS — 1,687 58 1,745
Total fixed income securities 8,606 40,106 153 48,865
Equity securities (1) 1,656 203 402 2,261
Short-term investments 1,676 3,467 1 5,144
Other investments — 3 2 $ (2) 3
Other assets 3 — 118 121
Total recurring basis assets 11,941 43,779 676 (2) 56,394
Non-recurring basis — — 15 15
Total assets at fair value $ 11,941 $ 43,779 $ 691 $ (2) $ 56,409
% of total assets at fair value 21.2 % 77.6 % 1.2 % — % 100.0 %
Investments reported at NAV 1,165
Total $ 57,574
Liabilities
Other liabilities $ (2) $ (10) $ — $ 8 $ (4)
Total recurring basis liabilities (2) (10) — 8 (4)
Total liabilities at fair value $ (2) $ (10) $ — $ 8 $ (4)
% of total liabilities at fair value 50.0 % 250.0 % — % (200.0) % 100.0 %
(1) As of December 31, 2023, equity securities exclude $150 million of preferred stock measured at cost.
240 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value
December 31, 2022
Quoted prices
in active Significant
markets for other Significant Counterparty
identical observable unobservable and cash
assets inputs inputs collateral
($ in millions) (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) netting Total
Assets
Fixed income securities:
U.S. government and agencies $ 7,878 $ 20 $ — $ 7,898
Municipal — 6,189 21 6,210
Corporate - public — 18,547 69 18,616
Corporate - privately placed — 7,592 55 7,647
Foreign government — 957 — 957
ABS — 1,129 28 1,157
Total fixed income securities 7,878 34,434 173 42,485
Equity securities 3,936 298 333 4,567
Short-term investments 508 3,659 6 4,173
Other investments — 23 3 $ (22) 4
Other assets 3 — 103 106
Total recurring basis assets 12,325 38,414 618 (22) 51,335
Non-recurring basis — — 23 23
Total assets at fair value $ 12,325 $ 38,414 $ 641 $ (22) $ 51,358
% of total assets at fair value 24.0 % 74.8 % 1.2 % — % 100.0 %
Investments reported at NAV 1,246
Total $ 52,604
Liabilities
Other liabilities $ (1) $ (25) $ — $ 21 $ (5)
Total recurring basis liabilities (1) (25) — 21 (5)
Total liabilities at fair value $ (1) $ (25) $ — $ 21 $ (5)
% of total liabilities at fair value 20.0 % 500.0 % — % (420.0) % 100.0 %
As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, Level 3 fair by third-party credit rating agencies. An increase
value measurements of fixed income securities total (decrease) in credit spreads for fixed income securities
$153 million and $173 million, respectively, and include valued based on non-binding broker quotes would
$26 million and $70 million, respectively, of securities result in a lower (higher) fair value, and an increase
valued based on non-binding broker quotes where the (decrease) in the credit rating of municipal bonds that
inputs have not been corroborated to be market are not rated by third-party credit rating agencies
observable and $11 million and $21 million, respectively, would result in a higher (lower) fair value.
of municipal fixed income securities that are not rated
241 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Rollforward of Level 3 assets and liabilities held at fair value during the year ended December 31, 2023
Total gains
(losses) included
in: Transfers
Balance as of Balance as of
December 31, Net Into Out of December 31,
($ in millions) 2022 income OCI Level 3 Level 3 Purchases Sales Issues Settlements 2023
Assets
Fixed income securities:
Municipal $ 21 $ 3 $ (1) $ — $ — $ — $ (10) $ — $ (2) $ 11
Corporate - public 69 (1) 2 — — — (44) — — 26
Corporate - privately
placed 55 (12) 1 16 — 1 (3) — — 58
ABS 28 — — — — 31 — — (1) 58
Total fixed income
securities 173 (10) 2 16 — 32 (57) — (3) 153
Equity securities 333 36 — — — 77 (44) — — 402
Short-term investments 6 — — — — 13 — — (18) 1
Other investments 3 (1) — — — — — — — 2
Other assets 103 15 — — — — — — — 118
Total recurring Level 3
assets 618 40 2 16 — 122 (101) — (21) 676
Liabilities
Total recurring Level 3
liabilities $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ —
Rollforward of Level 3 assets and liabilities held at fair value during the year ended December 31, 2022
Total gains
(losses) included
in: Transfers
Balance as of Balance as of
December 31, Net Into Out of December 31,
($ in millions) 2021 income OCI Level 3 Level 3 Purchases Sales Issues Settlements 2022
Assets
Fixed income securities:
Municipal $ 18 $ — $ 1 $ 2 $ — $ 2 $ — $ — $ (2) $ 21
Corporate - public 20 — (5) — — 66 (10) — (2) 69
Corporate - privately
placed 66 19 2 — — 34 (65) — (1) 55
ABS 40 1 — — (28) 17 — — (2) 28
Total fixed income
securities 144 20 (2) 2 (28) 119 (75) — (7) 173
Equity securities 349 16 — — — 13 (45) — — 333
Short-term investments 5 — — — — 23 — — (22) 6
Other investments 2 2 — — — — (1) — — 3
Other assets 65 38 — — — — — — — 103
Total recurring Level 3
assets 565 76 (2) 2 (28) 155 (121) — (29) 618
Liabilities
Total recurring Level 3
liabilities $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ —
242 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Rollforward of Level 3 assets and liabilities held at fair value during the year ended December 31, 2021
Total gains
(losses)
included in: Transfers
Balance as of Balance as of
December 31, Net Into Out of December 31,
($ in millions) 2020 income OCI Level 3 Level 3 Purchases Sales Issues Settlements 2021
Assets
Fixed income securities:
Municipal $ 17 $ — $ — $ 1 $ — $ 3 $ — $ — $ (3) $ 18
Corporate - public 67 1 (1) — — 13 (53) — — 20
Corporate - privately
placed 63 (2) 3 10 — 6 (23) — (5) 66
ABS 79 — 1 4 (32) 47 (5) — (54) 40
Total fixed income
securities 226 (1) 3 15 (32) 69 (81) — (62) 144
Equity securities 304 61 — — — 43 (160) — — 349
Short-term investments 35 — — — — 5 — — (35) 5
Other investments — — — — — 3 (1) — — 2
Other assets — 65 — — — — — — — 65
Assets held for sale 267 3 (1) 17 (13) 4 (163) — (6) —
Total recurring Level 3
assets 832 128 2 32 (45) 124 (405) — (103) 565
Liabilities
Liabilities held for sale (516) 35 — — — — 492 (28) 17 —
Total recurring Level 3
liabilities $ (516) $ 35 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 492 $ (28) $ 17 $ —
Total Level 3 gains (losses) included in net income
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Net investment income $ (1) $ 15 $ 1
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives 41 61 124
Transfers into Level 3 during 2023 included There were no transfers out of Level 3 during 2023.
situations where securities were written down utilizing Transfers out of Level 3 during 2022 and 2021 included
an internal price where the inputs had not been situations where a broker quote was used in the prior
corroborated to be market observable resulting in the period and a quote became available from the
security being classified as Level 3. Company’s independent third-party valuation service
provider in the current period. A quote utilizing the new
Transfers into Level 3 during 2022 and 2021
pricing source was not available as of the prior period,
included situations where a quote was not provided by
and any gains or losses related to the change in
the Company’s independent third-party valuation
valuation source for individual securities were not
service provider and as a result the price was stale or
significant.
had been replaced with a broker quote where the
inputs had not been corroborated to be market
observable resulting in the security being classified as
Level 3.
243 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Valuation changes included in net income and OCI for Level 3 assets and liabilities held as of December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Assets
Fixed income securities:
Corporate - privately placed $ (12) $ 1 $ (2)
Total fixed income securities (12) 1 (2)
Equity securities 35 14 28
Other investments (1) 2 —
Other assets 15 38 65
Total recurring Level 3 assets $ 37 $ 55 $ 91
Total included in net income $ 37 $ 55 $ 91
Components of net income
Net investment income $ (1) $ 14 $ 1
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives 38 41 90
Total included in net income $ 37 $ 55 $ 91
Assets
Municipal $ — $ 1 $ —
Corporate - public 1 (5) —
Corporate - privately placed 2 — 3
Changes in unrealized net capital gains and losses reported in OCI $ 3 $ (4) $ 3
Financial instruments not carried at fair value
($ in millions) December 31, 2023 December 31, 2022
Fair value Amortized Fair Amortized Fair
Financial assets level cost, net value cost, net value
Mortgage loans Level 3 $ 822 $ 769 $ 762 $ 700
Bank loans Level 3 224 238 686 686
Fair value Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
Financial liabilities level value (1) value value (1) value
Contractholder funds on investment contracts Level 3 $ 46 $ 46 $ 50 $ 50
Debt Level 2 7,942 7,655 7,964 7,449
Liability for collateral Level 2 1,891 1,891 2,011 2,011
(1) Represents the amounts reported on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.
244 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 7 Derivative Financial Instruments and Off-balance Sheet Financial Instruments
The Company uses derivatives for risk reduction payments under the agreements and are generally not
and to increase investment portfolio returns through representative of the potential for gain or loss on these
asset replication. Risk reduction activity is focused on agreements. However, the notional amounts specified
managing the risks with certain assets and liabilities in credit default swaps where the Company has sold
arising from the potential adverse impacts from credit protection represent the maximum amount of
changes in risk-free interest rates, changes in equity potential loss, assuming no recoveries.
market valuations, increases in credit spreads and
Fair value, which is equal to the carrying value, is
foreign currency fluctuations.
the estimated amount that the Company would receive
Asset replication refers to the “synthetic” creation or pay to terminate the derivative contracts at the
of assets through the use of derivatives. The Company reporting date. The carrying value amounts for OTC
replicates fixed income securities using a combination derivatives are further adjusted for the effects, if any,
of a credit default swap, index total return swap, of enforceable master netting agreements and are
options, futures, or a foreign currency forward contract presented on a net basis, by counterparty agreement,
and one or more highly rated fixed income securities, in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.
primarily investment grade host bonds, to synthetically
For those derivatives which qualify and have been
replicate the economic characteristics of one or more
designated as fair value accounting hedges, net
cash market securities. The Company replicates equity
income includes the changes in the fair value of both
securities using futures, index total return swaps, and
the derivative instrument and the hedged risk. For
options to increase equity exposure.
cash flow hedges, gains and losses are amortized from
Property-Liability may use interest rate swaps, AOCI and are reported in net income in the same
swaptions, futures and options to manage the interest period the forecasted transactions being hedged
rate risks of existing investments. These instruments impact net income.
are utilized to change the duration of the portfolio in
Non-hedge accounting is generally used for
order to offset the economic effect that interest rates
“portfolio” level hedging strategies where the terms of
would otherwise have on the fair value of its fixed
the individual hedged items do not meet the strict
income securities. Fixed income index total return
homogeneity requirements to permit the application of
swaps are used to offset valuation losses in the fixed
hedge accounting. For non-hedge derivatives, net
income portfolio during periods of declining market
income includes changes in fair value and accrued
values. Credit default swaps are typically used to
periodic settlements, when applicable. With the
mitigate the credit risk within the Property-Liability
exception of non-hedge derivatives used for asset
fixed income portfolio. Equity index total return swaps,
replication and non-hedge embedded derivatives, all of
futures and options are used by Property-Liability to
the Company’s derivatives are evaluated for their
offset valuation losses in the equity portfolio during
ongoing effectiveness as either accounting hedge or
periods of declining equity market values. In addition,
non-hedge derivative financial instruments on at least
equity futures are used to hedge the market risk
a quarterly basis.
related to deferred compensation liability contracts.
Forward contracts are primarily used by Property- In connection with the sale of ALIC and certain
Liability to hedge foreign currency risk associated with affiliates in 2021, the sale agreement included a
holding foreign currency denominated investments provision related to contingent consideration that may
and foreign operations. be earned over a ten-year period with the first
potential payment date commencing on January 1,
In 2022, the Company also had a derivative
2026 and a final potential payment date of January 1,
embedded in a non-derivative host contract that was
2035. The contingent consideration is determined
required to be separated from the host contract and
annually based on the average ten-year Treasury rate
accounted for at fair value with changes in fair value of
over the preceding three-year period compared to a
the embedded derivative reported in net income.
designated rate. The contingent consideration meets
When derivatives meet specific criteria, they may the definition of a derivative and is accounted for on a
be designated as accounting hedges and accounted fair value basis with periodic changes in fair value
for as fair value, cash flow, foreign currency fair value or reflected in earnings. There are no collateral
foreign currency cash flow hedges. requirements related to the contingent consideration.
The notional amounts specified in the contracts
are used to calculate the exchange of contractual
245 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Summary of the volume and fair value positions of derivative instruments as of December 31, 2023
Volume(1)
Number Fair
Notional of value, Gross Gross
($ in millions, except number of contracts) Balance sheet location amount contracts net asset liability
Asset derivatives
Derivatives not designated as accounting hedging instruments
Interest rate contracts
Futures Other assets n/a 20,479 $ 2 $ 2 $ —
Equity and index contracts
Options Other investments n/a 32 — — —
Futures Other assets n/a 1,305 1 1 —
Foreign currency contracts
Foreign currency forwards Other investments $ 278 n/a (2) 2 (4)
Contingent consideration Other assets 250 n/a 118 118 —
Credit default contracts
Credit default swaps – buying protection Other investments 34 n/a (1) — (1)
Total asset derivatives $ 562 21,816 $ 118 $ 123 $ (5)
Liability derivatives
Derivatives not designated as accounting hedging instruments
Interest rate contracts
Futures Other liabilities & accrued expenses n/a 2,175 $ (1) $ — $ (1)
Equity and index contracts
Futures Other liabilities & accrued expenses n/a 980 (1) — (1)
Foreign currency contracts
Foreign currency forwards Other liabilities & accrued expenses $ 306 n/a (3) 1 (4)
Credit default contracts
Credit default swaps – buying protection Other liabilities & accrued expenses 19 n/a (1) — (1)
Total liability derivatives 325 3,155 (6) $ 1 $ (7)
Total derivatives $ 887 24,971 $ 112
(1) Volume for OTC and cleared derivative contracts is represented by their notional amounts. Volume for exchange traded
derivatives is represented by the number of contracts, which is the basis on which they are traded. (n/a = not applicable)
246 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Summary of the volume and fair value positions of derivative instruments as of December 31, 2022
Volume (1)
Number Fair
Notional of value, Gross Gross
($ in millions, except number of contracts) Balance sheet location amount contracts net asset liability
Asset derivatives
Derivatives not designated as accounting hedging instruments
Interest rate contracts
Futures Other assets n/a 24,380 $ 3 $ 3 $ —
Equity and index contracts
Futures Other assets n/a 343 — — —
Foreign currency contracts
Foreign currency forwards Other investments $ 354 n/a 1 14 (13)
Contingent consideration Other assets 250 n/a 103 103 —
Credit default contracts
Credit default swaps – buying protection Other investments 24 n/a — 1 (1)
Total asset derivatives $ 628 24,723 $ 107 $ 121 $ (14)
Liability derivatives
Derivatives not designated as accounting hedging instruments
Interest rate contracts
Futures Other liabilities & accrued expenses n/a 1,624 $ — $ — $ —
Equity and index contracts
Futures Other liabilities & accrued expenses n/a 1,229 (1) — (1)
Foreign currency contracts
Foreign currency forwards Other liabilities & accrued expenses $ 283 n/a — 7 (7)
Credit default contracts
Credit default swaps – buying protection Other liabilities & accrued expenses 525 n/a (3) 1 (4)
Total liability derivatives 808 2,853 (4) $ 8 $ (12)
Total derivatives $ 1,436 27,576 $ 103
(1) Volume for OTC and cleared derivative contracts is represented by their notional amounts. Volume for exchange traded
derivatives is represented by the number of contracts, which is the basis on which they are traded. (n/a = not applicable)
Gross and net amounts for OTC derivatives (1)
Offsets
Cash Net Securities
Counter- collateral amount on collateral
Gross party (received) balance (received) Net
($ in millions) amount netting pledged sheet pledged amount
December 31, 2023
Asset derivatives $ 3 $ (6) $ 4 $ 1 $ — $ 1
Liability derivatives (10) 6 2 (2) — (2)
December 31, 2022
Asset derivatives $ 23 $ (22) $ — $ 1 $ — $ 1
Liability derivatives (22) 22 (1) (1) — (1)
(1) All OTC derivatives are subject to enforceable master netting agreements.
247 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Gains (losses) from valuation and settlements reported on derivatives not designated as accounting hedges
Total gain
Net gains (loss)
(losses) on Accident, (Loss) recognized in
investments health and Operating income from net income
and other policy costs and discontinued on
($ in millions) derivatives benefits expenses operations derivatives
2023
Interest rate contracts $ (8) $ — $ — $ — $ (8)
Equity and index contracts (32) — 28 — (4)
Contingent consideration — — 15 — 15
Foreign currency contracts (14) — — — (14)
Credit default contracts (30) — — — (30)
Other contracts — — (1) — (1)
Total $ (84) $ — $ 42 $ — $ (42)
2022
Interest rate contracts $ 737 $ — $ — $ — $ 737
Equity and index contracts 94 — (43) — 51
Contingent consideration — — 38 — 38
Foreign currency contracts 47 — (6) — 41
Credit default contracts (4) — — — (4)
Other contracts — — (1) — (1)
Total $ 874 $ — $ (12) $ — $ 862
2021
Interest rate contracts $ 22 $ — $ — $ — $ 22
Equity and index contracts (7) 27 45 — 65
Contingent consideration — — — 65 65
Foreign currency contracts 32 — — — 32
Credit default contracts 7 — — — 7
Total return swaps - fixed income 4 — — — 4
Total $ 58 $ 27 $ 45 $ 65 $ 195
The Company manages its exposure to credit risk The Company has not incurred any losses on
by utilizing highly rated counterparties, establishing derivative financial instruments due to counterparty
risk control limits, executing legally enforceable master nonperformance. Other derivatives, including futures
netting agreements (“MNAs”) and obtaining collateral and certain option contracts, are traded on organized
where appropriate. The Company uses MNAs for OTC exchanges which require margin deposits and
derivative transactions that permit either party to net guarantee the execution of trades, thereby mitigating
payments due for transactions and collateral is either any potential credit risk.
pledged or obtained when certain predetermined
Counterparty credit exposure represents the
exposure limits are exceeded.
Company’s potential loss if all of the counterparties
OTC cash and securities collateral pledged concurrently fail to perform under the contractual
terms of the contracts and all collateral, if any,
($ in millions) December 31, 2023
becomes worthless. This exposure is measured by the
Pledged by the Company $ 6
fair value of OTC derivative contracts with a positive
Pledged to the Company (1) —
fair value at the reporting date reduced by the effect, if
(1) $5 million of collateral was posted under MNAs for any, of legally enforceable master netting agreements.
contracts containing credit-risk-contingent provisions that
are in a liability provision.
248 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
OTC derivatives counterparty credit exposure by counterparty credit rating
($ in millions) December 31, 2023 December 31, 2022
Number of Exposure, Number of Exposure,
counter- Notional Credit net of counter- Notional Credit net of
Rating (1) parties amount (2) exposure (2) collateral(2) parties amount (2) exposure (2) collateral (2)
A+ — $ — $ — $ — 1 $ 128 $ 5 $ —
A — — — — 1 192 7 —
Total — $ — $ — $ — 2 $ 320 $ 12 $ —
(1) Allstate uses the lower of S&P’s or Moody’s long-term debt issuer ratings.
(2) Only OTC derivatives with a net positive fair value are included for each counterparty.
For certain exchange traded and cleared Certain of the Company’s derivative transactions
derivatives, margin deposits are required as well as contain credit-risk-contingent termination events and
daily cash settlements of margin accounts. cross-default provisions. Credit-risk-contingent
termination events allow the counterparties to
Exchange traded and cleared margin deposits
terminate the derivative agreement or a specific trade
($ in millions) December 31, 2023 on certain dates if AIC’s financial strength credit
Pledged by the Company $ 66 ratings by Moody’s or S&P fall below a certain level.
Received by the Company — Credit-risk-contingent cross-default provisions allow
the counterparties to terminate the derivative
Market risk is the risk that the Company will incur agreement if the Company defaults by pre-determined
losses due to adverse changes in market rates and threshold amounts on certain debt instruments.
prices. Market risk exists for all of the derivative
The following table summarizes the fair value of
financial instruments the Company currently holds, as
derivative instruments with termination, cross-default
these instruments may become less valuable due to
or collateral credit-risk-contingent features that are in
adverse changes in market conditions. To limit this risk,
a liability position, as well as the fair value of assets
the Company’s senior management has established
and collateral that are netted against the liability in
risk control limits. In addition, changes in fair value of
accordance with provisions within legally enforceable
the derivative financial instruments that the Company
MNAs.
uses for risk management purposes are generally
offset by the change in the fair value or cash flows of
the hedged risk component of the related assets,
liabilities or forecasted transactions.
($ in millions) December 31, 2023 December 31, 2022
Gross liability fair value of contracts containing credit-risk-
contingent features $ 10 $ 21
Gross asset fair value of contracts containing credit-risk-
contingent features and subject to MNAs (3) (11)
Collateral posted under MNAs for contracts containing credit-risk-
contingent features (5) (10)
Maximum amount of additional exposure for contracts with
credit-risk-contingent features if all features were triggered
concurrently $ 2 $ —
Off-balance sheet financial instruments
Commitments to invest, commitments to purchase private placement securities, commitments to fund loans,
financial guarantees and credit guarantees have off-balance sheet risk because their contractual amounts are not
recorded in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.
Contractual amounts of off-balance sheet financial instruments
As of December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022
Commitments to invest in limited partnership interests $ 2,941 $ 2,778
Private placement commitments 62 114
Other loan commitments 18 10
In the preceding table, the contractual amounts collateral or other security to support off-balance sheet
represent the amount at risk if the contract is fully financial instruments with credit risk.
drawn upon, the counterparty defaults and the value of
Commitments to invest in limited partnership
any underlying security becomes worthless. Unless
interests represent agreements to acquire new or
noted otherwise, the Company does not require
additional participation in certain limited partnership
investments. The Company enters into these
249 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
agreements in the normal course of business. Because actively traded, it is not practical to estimate fair value
the investments in limited partnerships are not actively of the commitments.
traded, it is not practical to estimate the fair value of
Other loan commitments are agreements to lend
these commitments.
to a borrower provided there is no violation of any
Private placement commitments represent condition established in the contract. The Company
commitments to purchase private placement debt and enters into these agreements to commit to future loan
private equity securities at a future date. The Company fundings at predetermined interest rates. Unless
enters into these agreements in the normal course of unconditionally cancellable, the Company recognizes a
business. The fair value of the debt commitments credit loss allowance on such commitments.
generally cannot be estimated on the date the Commitments have either fixed or varying expiration
commitment is made as the terms and conditions of dates or other termination clauses. The fair value of
the underlying private placement securities are not yet these commitments is insignificant.
final. Because the private equity securities are not
Note 8 Variable Interest Entities
Consolidated VIEs, of which the Company is the The Company is therefore the primary beneficiary.
primary beneficiary, primarily include Adirondack In addition, the Company provides quota share
Insurance Exchange, a New York reciprocal insurer, and reinsurance to the Reciprocal Exchanges.
New Jersey Skylands Insurance Association, a New
In the event of dissolution, policyholders would
Jersey reciprocal insurer (together “Reciprocal
share any residual unassigned surplus but are not
Exchanges”). The Reciprocal Exchanges are insurance
subject to assessment for any deficit in unassigned
carriers organized as unincorporated associations. The
surplus of the Reciprocal Exchanges. The assets of the
Company does not own the equity of the Reciprocal
Reciprocal Exchanges can be used only to settle the
Exchanges, which is owned by their respective
obligations of the Reciprocal Exchanges and general
policyholders.
creditors have no recourse to the Company.
The Company manages the business operations of
The results of operations of the Reciprocal
the Reciprocal Exchanges and has the power to direct
Exchanges are included in the Company’s Allstate
their activities that most significantly impact their
Protection segment and generated $224 million, $164
economic performance. The Company receives a
million and $181 million of earned premiums in 2023,
management fee for the services provided to the
2022 and 2021, respectively.
Reciprocal Exchanges. In addition, as of both
December 31, 2023 and 2022, the Company holds Total costs and expenses were $251 million, $244
interests of $123 million in the form of surplus notes million and $248 million in 2023, 2022 and 2021,
included in other liabilities and expenses on the respectively.
Statement of Assets and Liabilities of the Reciprocal
Exchanges that provide capital to the Reciprocal
Exchanges and would absorb any expected losses.
Assets and liabilities of Reciprocal Exchanges
($ in millions) December 31, 2023 December 31, 2022
Assets
Fixed income securities $ 267 $ 302
Short-term investments 7 13
Deferred policy acquisition costs 20 15
Premium installment and other receivables, net 40 43
Reinsurance recoverables, net 111 97
Other assets 54 90
Total assets 499 560
Liabilities
Reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense 201 209
Unearned premiums 147 171
Other liabilities and expenses 296 311
Total liabilities $ 644 $ 691
Nonconsolidated VIEs The Company makes not take an active role in management of these
investments in limited partnership interests and other investments. Therefore, the Company has determined
alternative investments that may be issued by VIEs. it is not the primary beneficiary as it has no ability to
These investments are generally accounted for under direct activities that could significantly affect the
the equity method and are reported as limited economic performance of the investments. The
partnership interests in the Company’s Consolidated Company’s maximum exposure to loss is limited to the
Statements of Financial Position. The Company does investment carrying value and any unfunded
250 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
commitments. Neither the Company’s carrying Company’s investment in comparison to the principal
amounts nor the unfunded commitments related to amount of the structured securities issued by the VIEs,
these VIEs are material individually or in the aggregate. the Company’s inability to direct the activities that
most significantly impact the economic performance of
In addition, the Company makes investments in
the VIEs, and, where applicable, the level of credit
structured securities issued by VIEs for which the
subordination which reduces the Company’s obligation
Company is not the investment manager. These
to absorb losses or right to receive benefits. The
structured investments typically invest in fixed income
Company’s maximum exposure to loss on these
securities and are managed by third parties and
investments is limited to the amount of the Company’s
include ABS and collateralized debt obligations. The
investment. Neither the Company’s carrying amounts
Company has not provided financial or other support
nor the unfunded commitments related to these VIEs
other than its original investment. For these
are material individually or in the aggregate.
investments, the Company determined it is not the
primary beneficiary due to the relative size of the
Note 9 Reserve for Property and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense
The Company establishes reserves for claims and As part of the reserving process, the Company may
claims expense on reported and unreported claims of also supplement its claims processes by utilizing third-
insured losses. The Company’s reserving process party adjusters, appraisers, engineers, inspectors, and
considers known facts and interpretations of other professionals and information sources to assess
circumstances and factors including the Company’s and settle catastrophe and non-catastrophe related
experience with similar cases, actual claims paid, claims. The effects of inflation are implicitly considered
historical trends involving claim payment patterns and in the reserving process.
pending levels of unpaid claims, loss management
Because reserves are estimates of unpaid portions
programs, product mix and contractual terms, changes
of losses that have occurred, including IBNR losses, the
in laws and regulations, judicial decisions, and
establishment of appropriate reserves, including
economic conditions.
reserves for catastrophes, Run-off Property-Liability
When the Company experiences changes in the and reinsurance and indemnification recoverables, is
mix or type of claims or changing claim settlement an inherently uncertain and complex process. The
patterns or data, it applies actuarial judgment in the ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from
determination and selection of development factors to recorded amounts, which are based on management’s
develop reserve liabilities. Supply chain disruptions and best estimates.
inflation have resulted in higher part costs, used car
The highest degree of uncertainty is associated
values and longer time to claim resolution, which have
with reserves for losses incurred in the initial reporting
combined with labor shortages to increase physical
period as it contains the greatest proportion of losses
damage loss costs. Medical inflation, treatment trends,
that have not been reported or settled as well as
attorney representation, litigation costs and more
heightened uncertainty for claims that involve litigation
severe accidents have contributed to higher third-
or take longer to settle during periods of rapidly
party bodily injury loss costs. The Company has also
increasing loss costs. The Company also has
digitized and modified claim processes to increase
uncertainty in the Run-off Property-Liability reserves
effectiveness and efficiency. These factors may lead to
that are based on events long since passed and are
historical development trends being less predictive of
complicated by lack of historical data, legal
future loss development, potentially creating additional
interpretations, unresolved legal issues and legislative
reserve variability. Generally, the initial reserves for a
intent based on establishment of facts.
new accident year are established based on claim
frequency and severity assumptions for different The Company regularly updates its reserve
business segments, lines and coverages based on estimates as new information becomes available and
historical relationships to relevant inflation indicators. as events unfold that may affect the resolution of
Reserves for prior accident years are statistically unsettled claims. Changes in reserve estimates, which
determined using several different actuarial estimation may be material, are reported in property and casualty
methods. Changes in auto claim frequency may result insurance claims and claims expense in the
from changes in mix of business, driving behaviors, Consolidated Statements of Operations in the period
miles driven or other factors. Changes in auto current such changes are determined.
year claim severity are generally influenced by inflation
Management believes that the reserve for property
in the medical and auto repair sectors, the
and casualty insurance claims and claims expense, net
effectiveness and efficiency of claim settlements and
of recoverables, is appropriately established in the
changes in mix of claim types. When changes in claim
aggregate and adequate to cover the ultimate net cost
data occur, actuarial judgment is used to determine
of reported and unreported claims arising from losses
appropriate development factors to establish reserves.
which had occurred by the date of the Consolidated
The Company’s reserving process incorporates
Statements of Financial Position based on available
changes in loss patterns, operational statistics and
facts, laws and regulations.
changes in claims reporting processes to determine its
best estimate of recorded reserves.
251 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Rollforward of reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Balance as of January 1 $ 37,541 $ 33,060 $ 27,610
Less recoverables (1) (9,176) (9,479) (7,033)
Net balance as of January 1 28,365 23,581 20,577
National General acquisition as of January 4, 2021 — — 1,797
SafeAuto acquisition as of October 1, 2021 — — 134
Incurred claims and claims expense related to:
Current year 40,521 35,523 29,196
Prior years 549 1,741 122
Total incurred 41,070 37,264 29,318
Claims and claims expense paid related to:
Current year (23,607) (20,739) (18,438)
Prior years (14,366) (11,741) (9,807)
Total paid (37,973) (32,480) (28,245)
Net balance as of December 31 31,462 28,365 23,581
Plus recoverables 8,396 9,176 9,479
Balance as of December 31 $ 39,858 $ 37,541 $ 33,060
(1) Recoverables comprises reinsurance and indemnification recoverables. See Note 11 for further details.
Reconciliation of total claims and claims expense incurred and paid by coverage
December 31, 2023
($ in millions) Incurred Paid
Allstate Protection
Auto insurance - liability coverage $ 15,752 $ (13,032)
Auto insurance - physical damage coverage 9,128 (9,290)
Homeowners insurance 9,330 (8,225)
Total auto and homeowners insurance 34,210 (30,547)
Other personal lines 1,827 (1,632)
Commercial lines 784 (951)
Other business lines 148 (206)
Protection Services 533 (522)
Run-off Property-Liability 78 (89)
Unallocated loss adjustment expenses (“ULAE”) 3,292 (3,269)
Claims incurred and paid from before 2019 243 (845)
Other (1) (45) 88
Total $ 41,070 $ (37,973)
(1) Paid and incurred amounts primarily related to the effect of foreign currency translation adjustments.
Incurred claims and claims expense represents the The Company calculates and records a single best
sum of paid losses, claim adjustment expenses and reserve estimate for losses from catastrophes, in
reserve changes in the calendar year. This expense conformance with generally accepted actuarial
includes losses from catastrophes of $5.64 billion, $3.11 standards. As a result, management believes that no
billion and $3.34 billion in 2023, 2022 and 2021, other estimate is better than the recorded amount.
respectively, net of recoverables. Catastrophes are an Due to the uncertainties involved, including the factors
inherent risk of the property and casualty insurance described above, the ultimate cost of losses may vary
business that have contributed to, and will continue to materially from recorded amounts, which are based on
contribute to, material year-to-year fluctuations in the management’s best estimates.
Company’s results of operations and financial position.
252 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Prior year reserve reestimates included in claims and claims expense (1)
For the years ended December 31,
Non-catastrophe losses Catastrophe losses Total
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021
Auto $ 294 $ 1,249 $ 178 $ (50) $ (64) $ (29) $ 244 $ 1,185 $ 149
Homeowners 66 123 31 36 77 (166) 102 200 (135)
Other personal lines 37 (34) (96) (18) 2 (11) 19 (32) (107)
Commercial lines 76 273 116 8 (1) 3 84 272 119
Other business lines 12 (10) (19) — 4 1 12 (6) (18)
Run-off Property-Liability (2) 89 125 116 — — — 89 125 116
Protection Services (1) (3) (2) — — — (1) (3) (2)
Total prior year reserve
reestimates $ 573 $ 1,723 $ 324 $ (24) $ 18 $ (202) $ 549 $ 1,741 $ 122
(1) Favorable reserve reestimates are shown in parentheses.
(2) The Company’s 2023, 2022 and 2021annual reserve review, using established industry and actuarial best practices, resulted in
unfavorable reestimates of $80 million, $118 million and $111 million, respectively.
253 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
The following presents information about incurred and paid claims development as of December 31, 2023, net of
recoverables, as well as the cumulative number of reported claims and the total of IBNR reserves plus expected
development on reported claims included in the net incurred claims amounts. See Note 2 for the accounting policy and
methodology for determining reserves for claims and claims expense, including both reported and IBNR claims. The
cumulative number of reported claims is identified by coverage and excludes reported claims for industry pools and
facilities where information is not available. The information about incurred and paid claims development for the 2019
to 2023 years, and the average annual percentage payout of incurred claims by age as of December 31, 2023, is
presented as required supplementary information.
Auto insurance – liability coverage
IBNR
($ in millions,
reserves plus Cumulative
except
expected number of
number of
development reported
reported
Incurred claims and allocated claim adjustment on reported claims
claims)
expenses, net of recoverables claims
For the years ended December 31,
Prior year
(unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) reserve
Accident year 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 reestimates As of December 31, 2023
2019 $ 10,377 $ 10,307 $ 10,557 $ 10,729 $ 10,812 $ 83 $ 642 2,569,785
2020 — 8,651 8,631 8,871 8,904 33 997 1,898,342
2021 — — 10,365 10,851 11,180 329 2,057 2,229,946
2022 — — — 13,321 13,263 (58) 4,202 2,401,908
2023 — — — — 15,365 10,258 2,283,467
Total $ 59,524 $ 387
Reconciliation to total prior year reserve reestimates recognized by line
Prior year reserve reestimates for pre-2019 accident years 229
Prior year reserve reestimates for ULAE 6
Other —
Total prior year reserve reestimates $ 622
Cumulative paid claims and allocated claims adjustment
expenses, net of recoverables
For the years ended December 31,
(unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited)
Accident year 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
2019 $ 3,936 $ 6,995 $ 8,530 $ 9,519 $ 10,170
2020 — 3,111 5,796 7,089 7,907
2021 — — 3,589 7,304 9,123
2022 — — — 4,424 9,061
2023 — — — — 5,107
Total $ 41,368
All outstanding liabilities before 2019, net of recoverables 1,368
Liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expenses, net of recoverables $ 19,524
Average annual percentage payout of incurred claims by age, net of recoverables, as of December 31, 2023
1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years
Auto insurance – liability coverage 36.6 % 29.2 % 13.6 % 8.6 % 5.6 %
254 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Auto insurance – physical damage coverage
IBNR
reserves plus
($ in millions, expected Cumulative
except number development number of
of reported Incurred claims and allocated claim adjustment expenses, on reported reported
claims) net of recoverables claims claims
For the years ended December 31,
Prior year
(unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) reserve
Accident year 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 reestimates As of December 31, 2023
2019 $ 6,241 $ 6,162 $ 6,121 $ 6,120 $ 6,113 $ (7) $ (11) 4,864,602
2020 — 5,484 5,393 5,369 5,359 (10) (11) 3,989,262
2021 — — 7,269 7,326 7,269 (57) (25) 4,567,859
2022 — — — 9,286 9,004 (282) (79) 4,904,706
2023 — — — — 9,484 970 4,591,024
Total $ 37,229 $ (356)
Reconciliation to total prior year reserve reestimates recognized by line
Prior year reserve reestimates for pre-2019 accident years (5)
Prior year reserve reestimates for ULAE (20)
Other 3
Total prior year reserve reestimates $ (378)
Cumulative paid claims and allocated claims adjustment
expenses, net of recoverables
For the years ended December 31,
(unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited)
Accident year 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
2019 $ 5,936 $ 6,132 $ 6,126 $ 6,123 $ 6,124
2020 — 5,119 5,405 5,378 5,370
2021 — — 6,847 7,351 7,294
2022 — — — 8,243 9,083
2023 — — — — 8,514
Total $ 36,385
All outstanding liabilities before 2019, net of recoverables —
Liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expenses, net of recoverables $ 844
Average annual percentage payout of incurred claims by age, net of recoverables, as of December 31, 2023
1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years
Auto insurance – physical damage coverage 95.0 % 5.0 % (0.4) % (0.1) % — %
255 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Homeowners insurance
IBNR
reserves plus
($ in millions, expected Cumulative
except number development number of
of reported Incurred claims and allocated claim adjustment expenses, on reported reported
claims) net of recoverables claims claims
For the years ended December 31,
Prior year
(unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) reserve
Accident year 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 reestimates As of December 31, 2023
2019 $ 4,694 $ 4,762 $ 4,769 $ 4,781 $ 4,790 $ 9 $ 38 847,160
2020 — 5,626 5,680 5,773 5,824 51 83 977,647
2021 — — 6,282 6,408 6,468 60 198 989,192
2022 — — — 6,537 6,489 (48) 567 784,867
2023 — — — — 9,258 3,469 919,333
Total $ 32,829 $ 72
Reconciliation to total prior year reserve reestimates recognized by line
Prior year reserve reestimates for pre-2019 accident years 29
Prior year reserve reestimates for ULAE (17)
Other 18
Total prior year reserve reestimates $ 102
Cumulative paid claims and allocated claims adjustment
expenses, net of recoverables
For the years ended December 31,
(unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited)
Accident year 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
2019 $ 3,414 $ 4,432 $ 4,621 $ 4,699 $ 4,752
2020 — 4,162 5,423 5,649 5,741
2021 — — 4,449 6,035 6,270
2022 — — — 3,866 5,922
2023 — — — — 5,789
Total $ 28,474
All outstanding liabilities before 2019, net of recoverables 95
Liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expenses, net of recoverables $ 4,450
Average annual percentage payout of incurred claims by age, net of recoverables, as of December 31, 2023
1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years
Homeowners insurance 70.8 % 22.5 % 2.8 % 0.8 % 0.9 %
256 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Reconciliation of the net incurred and paid claims development tables above to the reserve for property and
casualty insurance claims and claims expense
($ in millions) As of December 31, 2023
Net outstanding liabilities
Allstate Protection
Auto insurance - liability coverage $ 19,524
Auto insurance - physical damage coverage 844
Homeowners insurance 4,450
Other personal lines 1,788
Commercial lines 1,745
Other business lines 17
Protection Services 46
Run-off Property-Liability (1) 1,361
ULAE 1,679
Other (2) 8
Net reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense 31,462
Recoverables
Allstate Protection
Auto insurance - liability coverage 6,880
Auto insurance - physical damage coverage 22
Homeowners insurance 343
Other personal lines 243
Commercial lines 326
Other business lines 1
Protection Services 14
Run-off Property-Liability 497
ULAE 70
Total recoverables 8,396
Gross reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense $ 39,858
(1) Run-off Property-Liability includes business in run-off with most of the claims related to accident years more than 40 years ago.
IBNR reserves represent $762 million of the total reserves as of December 31, 2023.
(2) Primarily related to the unamortized fair value adjustment related to the acquisition of National General.
257 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 10 Reserve for Future Policy Benefits and Contractholder Funds
Rollforward of reserve for future policy benefits(1)
For the years ended December 31,
Accident and Traditional
health life Total
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021
Present value of expected net
premiums
Beginning balance $ 1,464 $ 1,785 $ 1,575 $ 238 $ 254 $ 204 $ 1,702 $ 2,039 $ 1,779
Beginning balance at original discount
rate 1,549 1,604 1,307 246 215 154 1,795 1,819 1,461
Effect of changes in cash flow
assumptions (12) — — 34 — — 22 — —
Effect of actual variances from expected
experience (10) (137) (32) 2 36 (5) (8) (101) (37)
Adjusted beginning balance 1,527 1,467 1,275 282 251 149 1,809 1,718 1,424
Issuances (1) 501 371 620 89 34 83 590 405 703
Interest accrual 69 48 52 11 4 7 80 52 59
Net premiums collected (360) (337) (343) (52) (43) (24) (412) (380) (367)
Ending balance at original discount rate 1,737 1,549 1,604 330 246 215 2,067 1,795 1,819
Effect of changes in discount rate
assumptions (49) (85) 181 (5) (8) 39 (54) (93) 220
Ending balance 1,688 1,464 1,785 325 238 254 2,013 1,702 2,039
Present value of expected future policy
benefits
Beginning balance 2,229 2,796 2,577 524 673 629 2,753 3,469 3,206
Beginning balance at original discount
rate 2,316 2,426 2,070 534 511 426 2,850 2,937 2,496
Effect of changes in cash flow
assumptions 21 (44) (2) 30 — — 51 (44) (2)
Effect of actual variances from expected
experience (33) (116) (5) 1 24 4 (32) (92) (1)
Adjusted beginning balance 2,304 2,266 2,063 565 535 430 2,869 2,801 2,493
Issuances (1) 486 360 664 102 42 94 588 402 758
Interest accrual 103 76 80 25 12 21 128 88 101
Benefit payments (398) (386) (381) (36) (55) (34) (434) (441) (415)
Ending balance at original discount rate 2,495 2,316 2,426 656 534 511 3,151 2,850 2,937
Effect of changes in discount rate
assumptions (42) (87) 370 1 (10) 162 (41) (97) 532
Ending balance $ 2,453 $ 2,229 $ 2,796 $ 657 $ 524 $ 673 $ 3,110 $ 2,753 $ 3,469
Net reserve for future policy benefits(2) $ 765 $ 765 $ 1,011 $ 332 $ 286 $ 419 $ 1,097 $ 1,051 $ 1,430
Less: reinsurance recoverables 81 76 149 2 1 2 83 77 151
Net reserve for future policy benefits,
after reinsurance recoverables $ 684 $ 689 $ 862 $ 330 $ 285 $ 417 $ 1,014 $ 974 $ 1,279
(1) 2021 includes assumed business from ALNY and business acquired from National General.
(2)Excludes $250 million, $271 million, and $265 million of reserves related to short-duration and other contracts as of December 31,
2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
258 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Revenue and interest recognized in the consolidated statements of operations
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Revenues (1)
Accident and health $ 814 $ 838 $ 872
Traditional life 106 94 55
Total $ 920 $ 932 $ 927
Interest expense (2)
Accident and health $ 34 $ 28 $ 28
Traditional life 14 8 14
Total $ 48 $ 36 $ 42
(1) Total revenues reflects gross premiums used in the calculation for reserve for future policy benefits. Revenues included in
Accident and health insurance premiums and contract charges on the Consolidated Statements of Operations reflect premium
revenue recognized for traditional life insurance and long-duration and short-duration accident and health insurance contracts.
(2) Total interest expense presented as part of Accident, health and other policy benefits on the Consolidated Statements of
Operations.
The following table provides the amount of undiscounted and discounted expected gross premiums and expected
future benefits and expenses for nonparticipating traditional and limited-payment contracts.
As of December 31,
2023 2022 2021
($ in millions) Undiscounted Discounted Undiscounted Discounted Undiscounted Discounted
Accident and health
Expected future gross premiums $ 5,339 $ 3,744 $ 4,919 $ 3,517 $ 5,166 $ 4,369
Expected future benefits and
expenses 3,578 2,453 3,243 2,229 3,426 2,796
Traditional life
Expected future gross premiums 896 623 679 465 614 505
Expected future benefits and
expenses 1,301 657 978 524 940 673
Key assumptions used in calculating the reserve for future policy benefits
As of December 31,
Accident and health Traditional life
2023 2022 2023 2022
Weighted-average duration (in years) 4.0 3.6 15.0 13.8
Weighted-average interest rates
Interest accretion rate (discount rate at contract issuance) 5.83 % 4.97 % 5.41 % 5.56 %
Current discount rate (upper-medium grade fixed income yield) 4.77 4.72 4.97 5.23
Significant assumptions To determine mortality and morbidity assumptions, the Company uses a combination of
its historical experience and industry data. Mortality and morbidity are monitored throughout the year. Historical
experience is obtained through annual Company experience studies in the third quarter that consider its historical
claim patterns. The lapse assumption is determined based on historical lapses of the Company’s insurance contracts.
The Company’s annual review of the mortality, morbidity and lapse experience assumptions in 2023, 2022, and
2021 resulted in an increase of less than $1 million, a decrease of $4 million and a decrease of $11 million respectively, to
the reserve for future policy benefits.
The following table summarizes the ratio of actual to expected experience used in the determination of the reserve
for future policy benefits.
As of December 31,
Accident and health Traditional life
2023 2022 2023 2022
Actual to expected experience
Mortality n/a n/a 95 % 238 %
Morbidity 92 % 94 % n/a n/a
Lapses 110 % 112 % 78 % 61 %
n/a = not applicable
259 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Contractholder funds
Contractholder funds activity
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Beginning balance $ 879 $ 890 $ 857
Deposits 130 133 118
Interest credited 34 32 34
Benefits (14) (21) (41)
Surrenders and partial withdrawals (21) (28) (23)
Contract charges (119) (117) (111)
Other adjustments (1) (10) 56
Ending balance $ 888 $ 879 $ 890
Components of contractholder funds
Interest-sensitive life insurance $ 842 $ 829 $ 835
Fixed annuities 46 50 55
Total $ 888 $ 879 $ 890
Weighted-average crediting rate 4.21 % 4.28 % 4.29 %
Net amount at risk (1) $ 11,359 $ 11,610 $ 11,682
Cash surrender value 726 719 725
(1) Guaranteed benefit amounts in excess of the current account balances.
Account values: comparison of current crediting rate to guaranteed minimum crediting rate (1)
($ in millions)
At guaranteed 1-50 basis
Range of guaranteed minimum crediting rates minimum points above Total
December 31, 2023
Less than 3.00% $ — $ — $ —
3.00% - 3.49% — 30 30
3.50% - 3.99% 11 — 11
4.00% - 4.49% 434 — 434
4.50% - 4.99% 262 — 262
5.00% or greater 67 — 67
Non-account balances (2) 84
Total $ 774 $ 30 $ 888
December 31, 2022
Less than 3.00% $ — $ — $ —
3.00% - 3.49% — 16 16
3.50% - 3.99% 12 — 12
4.00% - 4.49% 429 — 429
4.50% - 4.99% 267 — 267
5.00% or greater 69 — 69
Non-account balances (2) 86
Total $ 777 $ 16 $ 879
(1) Difference, in basis points, between rates being credited to contractholders and the respective guaranteed minimum
crediting rates.
(2) Non-account balances include unearned revenue and amounts related to policies where a claim is either in the course of
settlement or IBNR. A claim on a life insurance policy results in the accrual of interest at a rate and over a period of time that
is specified by state insurance regulations.
260 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Accident and health short-duration contracts
The following presents information about incurred and paid claims development as of December 31, 2023, net of
recoverables, as well as the cumulative number of reported claims and the total of IBNR reserves plus expected
development on reported claims included in the net incurred claims amounts. See Note 2 for the accounting policy and
methodology for determining reserves for future policy benefits, including both reported and IBNR claims. The
Company’s accident and health claims are counted by claim number assigned to each claimant per illness, injury or
death, regardless of number of services rendered for each incident. Claims closed without payment are not included in
the cumulative number of reported accident and health claims. The information about incurred and paid claims
development for the 2019 to 2023 years, and the average annual percentage payout of incurred claims by age as of
December 31, 2023, is presented as required supplementary information.
Group and individual accident and health
Incurred claims and allocated claim adjustment IBNR reserves
($ in millions, except Cumulative
expenses, net of recoverables plus expected
number of reported number of
development on
claims) reported claims
reported claims
For the years ended December 31,
(unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited)
Accident year 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 As of December 31, 2023
2019 $ 257 $ 239 $ 242 $ 242 $ 242 $ — 313,017
2020 — 297 293 294 291 1 415,364
2021 — — 424 420 415 2 677,649
2022 — — — 437 402 8 587,462
2023 — — — — 476 164 413,651
Total $ 1,826
Cumulative paid claims and allocated claims adjustment
expenses, net of recoverables
For the years ended December 31,
(unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited)
Accident year 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
2019 $ 158 $ 234 $ 242 $ 242 $ 242
2020 — 184 284 290 290
2021 — 272 408 414
2022 — — — 275 393
2023 — — — — 312
Total $ 1,651
All outstanding liabilities before 2019, net of recoverables —
Liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expenses, net of recoverables $ 175
261 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Reconciliation of the net incurred and paid claims development tables above to the reserve for future policy
benefits
($ in millions) As of December 31, 2023
Net outstanding liabilities
Group and individual accident and health short-duration contracts $ 175
Long-duration accident and health insurance 684
Long-duration traditional life insurance 330
Other contracts (1) 29
ULAE 9
Net reserve for future policy benefits 1,227
Recoverables
Group and individual accident and health short-duration contracts 37
Other accident and health short-duration contracts —
Insurance lines other than short-duration 83
ULAE —
Gross reserve for future policy benefits $ 1,347
(1) Other includes short-duration contracts related to employer voluntary benefits and other contracts.
Average annual percentage payout of incurred claims by age, net of recoverables, as of December 31, 2023
1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years
Group and individual accident and health 64.2 % 33.1 % 2.0 % 0.5 % 0.2 %
262 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 11 Reinsurance and Indemnification
Effects of reinsurance and indemnification on property and casualty premiums written and earned and accident
and health insurance premiums and contract charges
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Property and casualty insurance premiums written
Direct $ 54,632 $ 50,065 $ 45,523
Assumed 396 245 213
Ceded (2,018) (1,824) (1,736)
Property and casualty insurance premiums written, net of recoverables $ 53,010 $ 48,486 $ 44,000
Property and casualty insurance premiums earned
Direct $ 52,301 $ 47,552 $ 43,944
Assumed 358 221 178
Ceded (1,989) (1,869) (1,904)
Property and casualty insurance premiums earned, net of recoverables $ 50,670 $ 45,904 $ 42,218
Accident and health insurance premiums and contract charges
Direct $ 1,865 $ 1,838 $ 1,892
Assumed 28 31 21
Ceded (47) (37) (79)
Accident and health insurance premiums and contract charges, net of
recoverables $ 1,846 $ 1,832 $ 1,834
Effects of reinsurance ceded and indemnification programs on property and casualty insurance claims and claims
expense and accident, health and other policy benefits
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense (1) $ (633) $ (1,600) $ (3,484)
Accident, health and other policy benefits (44) 15 (91)
(1) Includes approximately $39 million of ceded losses related to the Nationwide Reinsurance Program for 2023.
Reinsurance and indemnification recoverables, net
As of December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022
Property and casualty
Paid and due from reinsurers and indemnitors $ 254 $ 291
Unpaid losses estimated (including IBNR) 8,396 9,176
Total property and casualty $ 8,650 $ 9,467
Accident and health insurance 159 152
Total $ 8,809 $ 9,619
Rollforward of credit loss allowance for reinsurance recoverables
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022
Property and casualty (1) (2)
Beginning balance $ (62) $ (66)
Increase in the provision for credit losses (1) (5)
Write-offs 1 9
Ending balance $ (62) $ (62)
Accident and health insurance
Beginning balance $ (3) $ (8)
Decrease/(Increase) in the provision for credit losses — 5
Write-offs — —
Ending Balance $ (3) $ (3)
(1) Primarily related to Run-off Property-Liability reinsurance ceded.
(2) Indemnification recoverables are considered collectible based on the industry pool and facility enabling legislation.
263 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Property and casualty reinsurance and The MCCA is funded by annually assessing
indemnifications recoverables participating member companies actively writing
motor vehicle coverage in Michigan on a per vehicle
Property and casualty programs are grouped by
basis that is currently $122 per vehicle insured for
the following characteristics:
unlimited personal injury protection (“PIP”) coverage
1. Indemnification programs - industry pools, facilities and $48 per vehicle for other PIP coverage. The
or associations that are governed by state MCCA’s calculation of the annual assessment is based
insurance statutes or regulations or the federal upon the total of members’ actuarially determined
government. present value of expected payments on lifetime claims
by all persons expected to be catastrophically injured
2. Catastrophe reinsurance programs - reinsurance
in that year and ultimately qualify for MCCA
protection for catastrophe exposure nationwide
reimbursement, its operating expenses, and
and by specific states, as applicable.
adjustments for the amount of excesses or deficiencies
3. Other reinsurance programs - reinsurance in prior assessments.The assessment is incurred by
protection for asbestos, environmental and other the Company as policies are written and recovered as a
liability exposures as well as commercial lines, component of premiums from the Company’s
including shared economy. customers.
Property and casualty reinsurance is in place for The MCCA indemnifies qualifying claims of all
the Allstate Protection, Run-off lines and Protection current and former member companies (whether or not
Services segments. The Company purchases actively writing motor vehicle coverage in Michigan) for
reinsurance after evaluating the financial condition of qualifying claims and claims expenses incurred while
the reinsurer as well as the terms and price of the member companies were actively writing the
coverage. mandatory PIP coverage in Michigan. Member
companies actively writing automobile coverage in
Indemnification programs The Company Michigan include the MCCA annual assessments in
participates in state-based industry pools or facilities determining the level of premiums to charge insureds
mandating participation by insurers offering certain in the state.
coverage in their state, including the Michigan
Catastrophic Claims Association (“MCCA”), the New As required for member companies by the MCCA,
Jersey Property-Liability Insurance Guaranty the Company reports covered paid and unpaid claims
Association (“PLIGA”), the North Carolina Reinsurance to the MCCA when estimates of loss for a reported
Facility (“NCRF”) and the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe claim are expected to exceed the retention level, the
Fund (“FHCF”). When the Company pays qualifying claims involve certain types of severe injuries, or there
claims under the coverage indemnified by a state’s are litigation demands received suggesting the claim
pool or facility, the Company is reimbursed for the value exceeds certain thresholds. The retention level is
qualifying claim losses and expenses. Each state pool adjusted upward every other MCCA fiscal year by the
or facility may assess participating companies to lesser of 6% or the increase in the consumer price
collect sufficient amounts to meet its total index. The retention level is $635 thousand per claim
indemnification requirements. The enabling legislation for the fiscal two-years ending June 30, 2025
for each state’s pool or facility compels the pool or compared to $600 thousand per claim for the fiscal
facility only to indemnify participating companies for two-years ending June 30, 2023.
qualifying claim losses and expenses; the state pool or
The MCCA is obligated to fund the ultimate liability
facility does not underwrite the coverage or take on
of member companies’ qualifying claims and claim
the ultimate risk of the indemnified business. As a pass
expenses. The MCCA does not underwrite the
through, these pools or facilities manage the receipt of
insurance coverage or hold any underwriting risk.
assessments paid by participating companies and
payment of indemnified amounts for covered claims The MCCA indemnifies members as qualifying
presented by participating companies. The Company claims are paid and billed by members to the MCCA.
has not had any credit losses related to these Unlimited lifetime covered losses result in significant
indemnification programs. levels of ultimate incurred claim reserves being
recorded by member companies along with offsetting
State-based industry pools or facilities
indemnification recoverables. Disputes with claimants
Michigan Catastrophic Claims Association The over coverage on certain reported claims can result in
MCCA is a statutory indemnification mechanism for additional losses, which may be recoverable from the
member insurers’ qualifying personal injury protection MCCA, excluding litigation expenses. There is currently
claims paid for the unlimited lifetime medical benefits no method by which insurers are able to obtain the
above the applicable retention level for qualifying benefit of managed care programs to reduce claims
injuries from automobile, motorcycle and commercial costs through the MCCA.
vehicle accidents. Indemnification recoverables on paid
The MCCA annual assessments fund current
and unpaid claims, including IBNR, as of December 31,
operations and member company reimbursements.
2023 and 2022 include $6.42 billion and $6.72 billion,
The MCCA prepares statutory-basis financial
respectively, from the MCCA for its indemnification
statements in conformity with accounting practices
obligation.
prescribed or permitted by the State of Michigan
Department of Insurance and Financial Services (“MI
264 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
DOI”). The MI DOI has granted the MCCA a statutory be expensed as losses recoverable in rates as
permitted practice that expires in June 30, 2025 to appropriate. As of December 31, 2022, the date of its
discount its liabilities for loss and loss adjustment most recent annual financial report, the UCJF fund had
expense. As of June 30, 2023, the date of its most a balance of $71 million.
recent annual financial report, the MCCA had cash and
North Carolina Reinsurance Facility The NCRF
invested assets of $21.58 billion and an accumulated
provides automobile liability insurance to drivers that
deficit of $2.05 billion. The permitted practice reduced
private market insurers are not otherwise willing to
the accumulated deficit by $44.95 billion. As a result of
insure. All insurers licensed to write automobile
this deficit, the assessment includes an increase of $48
insurance in North Carolina are members of the NCRF.
per passenger and commercial vehicle and motorcycle
Premiums, losses and expenses are assigned to the
insured beginning July 1, 2023, with varying
NCRF. North Carolina law allows the NCRF to recoup
assessments for commercial fleet and historical
operating losses for certain insureds through a
vehicles.
surcharge to policyholders. As of September 30, 2023,
New Jersey Property-Liability Insurance Guaranty the NCRF reported a deficit of $122 million in members’
Association PLIGA serves as the statutory equity. The NCRF implemented a loss recoupment
administrator of the Unsatisfied Claim and Judgment surcharge on all private passenger and commercial
Fund (“UCJF”), Workers’ Compensation Security Fund fleet policies effective October 1, 2023, through March
and the New Jersey Surplus Lines Insurance Guaranty 31, 2024. Member companies are assessed the
Fund. recoupment surcharge. The loss recoupment
surcharge will be adjusted on April 1, 2024 and
In addition to its insolvency protection
discontinued once losses are recovered. The NCRF
responsibilities, PLIGA reimburses insurers for
results are shared by the member companies in
unlimited excess medical benefits (“EMBs”) paid in
proportion to their respective North Carolina
connection with PIP claims in excess of $75,000 for
automobile liability writings. For the fiscal year ending
policies issued or renewed prior to January 1, 1991, and
September 30, 2023, net gain was $25 million,
limited EMB claims in excess of $75,000 and capped at
including $1.2 billion of earned premiums, $364 million
$250,000 for policies issued or renewed on or after
of certain private passenger auto risk recoupment and
January 1, 1991, to December 31, 2003.
$153 million of member loss recoupments. As of
A significant portion of the incurred claim reserves December 31, 2023, the NCRF recoverables on paid
and the recoverables can be attributed to a small claims is $83 million and recoverables on unpaid claims
number of catastrophic claims. Assessments paid to is $299 million. Paid recoverable balances, if covered,
PLIGA for the EMB program totaled $7 million in 2023. are typically settled within sixty days of monthly filing.
The amounts of paid and unpaid recoverables as of
Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund Allstate
December 31, 2023 and 2022 were $326 million and
subsidiaries Castle Key Insurance Company (“CKIC”)
$330 million, respectively.
and Castle Key Indemnity Company (“CKI”, and
PLIGA annually assesses all admitted property and together with CKIC, “Castle Key”) participate in the
casualty insurers writing covered lines in New Jersey mandatory coverage provided by the FHCF and
for PLIGA indemnification and expenses. PLIGA therefore have access to reimbursement for certain
assessments may be recouped as a surcharge on qualifying Florida hurricane losses from the FHCF.
premiums collected. PLIGA does not ultimately retain Castle Key has exposure to assessments and pays
underwriting risk as it assesses member companies for annual premiums to the FHCF for this reimbursement
their expected qualifying losses to provide funding for protection. The FHCF has the authority to issue bonds
payment of its indemnification obligation to member to pay its obligations to participating insurers in excess
companies for their actual losses. As a pass through, of its capital balances. Payment of these bonds is
PLIGA facilitates these transactions of receipt of funded by emergency assessments on all property and
assessments paid by member companies and payment casualty premiums in the state, except workers’
to member companies for covered claims presented by compensation, medical malpractice, accident and
them for indemnification. As of December 31, 2022, the health insurance and policies written under the
date of its most recent annual financial report, PLIGA National Flood Insurance Program (“NFIP”). The FHCF
had a fund balance of $271 million. emergency assessments are limited to 6% of premiums
per year beginning the first year in which
As statutory administrator of the UCJF, PLIGA
reimbursements require bonding, and up to a total of
provides compensation to qualified claimants for
10% of premiums per year for assessments in the
personal injury protection, bodily injury, or death
second and subsequent years, if required to fund
caused by private passenger automobiles operated by
additional bonding. The FHCF has not issued an
uninsured or “hit and run” drivers. The UCJF also
emergency assessment since 2015.
provides private passenger pedestrian personal injury
protection benefits when no other coverage is Annual premiums earned and paid under the FHCF
available. agreement were $28 million, $24 million and $15 million
in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Commuted
PLIGA annually collects a UCJF assessment from
contracts related to Hurricane Irma resulted in
all admitted property and casualty insurers writing
payments to the Company of $6 million in 2023.
motor vehicle liability insurance in New Jersey for UCJF
Qualifying losses were $74 million and $13 million in
indemnification and expenses. UCJF assessments can
2022 and 2021, respectively. The Company has access
265 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
to reimbursement provided by the FHCF for 90% of the loss event that gave rise to the reinstatement
qualifying personal property losses that exceed its premium and are recorded in claims and claims
current retention of $152 million for the two largest expense in the consolidated statements of
hurricanes and $51 million for other hurricanes, up to a operations.
maximum total of $312 million, effective from June 1,
The Company’s current catastrophe reinsurance
2023 to May 31, 2024. The amounts recoverable from
program supports the Company’s risk and return
the FHCF totaled $82 million and $96 million as of
framework which is intended to provide shareholders
December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
with an acceptable return on the risks assumed in the
Federal Government - National Flood Insurance property business, and to reduce variability of
Program NFIP is a program administered by the earnings, while providing protection to customers. This
Federal Emergency Management Agency (“FEMA”) framework incorporates the Company’s robust
whereby the Company sells and services NFIP flood economic capital model and is informed by
insurance policies as an agent of FEMA and receives catastrophe risk models including hurricanes,
fees for its services. The Company is fully indemnified earthquakes and wildfires and adjusts based on
for claims and claim expenses and does not retain any premium and insured value growth. The Company’s
ultimate risk for the indemnified business. The federal reinsurance agreements are part of its capital models
government is obligated to pay all claims and certain and its catastrophe risk management strategy. As of
allocated loss adjustment expenses in accordance with December 31, 2023, the modeled 1-in-100 probable
the arrangement. maximum loss for hurricane, earthquake and wildfire
perils is approximately $2.5 billion, net of reinsurance.
Congressional authorization for the NFIP is
The Company continually reviews its aggregate risk
periodically evaluated and may be subjected to
appetite and the cost and availability of reinsurance to
freezes, including when the federal government
optimize the risk and return profile of this exposure.
experiences a shutdown. FEMA has a NFIP reinsurance
The following catastrophe reinsurance agreements are
program to manage the future exposure of the NFIP
in effect as of December 31, 2023.
through the transfer of risk to private reinsurance
companies and capital market investors. Congress is The Nationwide Excess Catastrophe Reinsurance
evaluating the funding of the program as well as Program (the “Nationwide Program”) provides
considering reforms to the program that would be coverage up to $6.92 billion of loss less retention of
incorporated in legislation to reauthorize the NFIP. As $500 million to $750 million, and is subject to the
of September 30, 2023, the NFIP owes $20.5 billion to percentage of reinsurance placed in each of its
the U.S. Treasury. agreements. Property business in the state of Florida is
excluded from this program. Separate reinsurance
The amounts recoverable as of December 31, 2023
agreements address the distinct needs of separately
and 2022 were $76 million and $145 million,
capitalized legal entities. The Nationwide Program
respectively. Premiums earned under the NFIP include
includes reinsurance agreements with both the
$327 million, $319 million and $350 million in 2023,
traditional and ILS markets as described below:
2022 and 2021, respectively. Qualifying losses incurred
include $102 million, $435 million and $267 million in • Core traditional market multi-year and per
2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. occurrence excess agreements provide limits
totaling $4.69 billion for catastrophe losses arising
Catastrophe reinsurance The Company’s
out of multiple perils and are comprised of the
reinsurance program is designed to provide
following:
reinsurance protection for catastrophes resulting from
multiple perils including hurricanes, windstorms, hail, – $3.58 billion of placed limits exhausting at
tornadoes, winter storms, wildfires, earthquakes and $4.25 billion, with one annual reinstatement:
fires following earthquakes.
▪ 31.6% of the coverage is provided in four
• The Company purchases reinsurance from multi-year contracts attaching at
traditional reinsurance companies as well as the $500 million.
insurance-linked securities (“ILS”) market.
▪ 31.7% of the coverage is provided in five
• The majority of the Company’s program comprises multi-year contracts with the first
multi-year contracts, primarily placed in the $250 million in excess of $500 million
traditional reinsurance market, such that generally retained by Allstate.
one-third of the program is renewed every year.
▪ 31.7% of the coverage is provided in one
• Coverage is generally purchased on a broad single-year contract providing $250 million
geographic, product line and multiple peril loss of placed limit in excess of a $750 million
basis. retention and four multi-year contracts
attaching at $1.00 billion.
• Florida personal lines property is covered by a
separate agreement, as the risk of loss is different ▪ Three single-year contracts providing
and the Company’s subsidiaries operating in this coverage between $1.75 billion and
state are separately capitalized. $4.25 billion, 4% placed.
• When applicable, reinsurance reinstatement
premiums are recognized in the same period as
266 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
– Two single-year contracts providing placements providing coverage for perils not
$500 million of limits in excess of a covered by the FHCF and RAP contracts, which
$4.25 billion retention, one 95% placed and one only cover hurricanes.
4% placed.
• Three FHCF contracts provide $330 million of limits
– $105 million of placed limits in excess of a for qualifying losses to personal lines property in
$4.75 billion retention and $131 million of Florida caused by storms the National Hurricane
placed limits in excess of a $5.54 billion Center declares to be hurricanes. The three
retention, both with a 5% co-participation and contracts are 90% placed.
one reinstatement of limits over its eight-year
• Three RAP contracts provide $49 million of limits
term.
for qualifying losses to personal lines property in
– $375 million of placed limits in single-year Florida caused by storms the National Hurricane
placements filling capacity around the multi- Center declares to be hurricanes. The three
year and ILS placements: contracts are 90% placed.
▪ One contract providing $95 million of • ILS placements provide $620 million of reinsurance
placed limits in excess of a $4.75 billion limits for qualifying losses to personal lines
retention, with two limits available in any property in Florida caused by a named storm
one contract year. event, a severe weather event, an earthquake
event, a fire event, a volcanic eruption event, or a
▪ One contract providing $260 million of
meteorite impact event.
placed limits in excess of a $4.75 billion
retention, with no annual reinstatement. National General Lender Services Standalone
Program is placed in the traditional market and
▪ One contract providing $20 million of
provides $255 million of coverage, subject to a
placed limits in excess of a $6.82 billion
$60 million retention, with one reinstatement of limits.
retention, with no annual reinstatement.
Inuring contracts include the National General Florida
• ILS placements provide $1.80 billion of placed Hurricane Catastrophe Fund contract providing
limits, with no reinstatement of limits, and are $64 million of limits in excess of a $33 million retention,
comprised of the following: 90% placed, and the National General RAP Contract
providing $10 million of limits in excess of a $24 million
– Six contracts providing occurrence coverage
retention, 90% placed.
of $1.05 billion of placed limits, reinsuring
losses in all states except Florida caused by National General Reciprocal Excess Catastrophe
named storms, earthquakes and fire following Reinsurance Contracts are placed in the traditional
earthquakes, severe weather, wildfires, and market and provide $600 million of coverage, subject
other naturally occurring or man-made events to a $20 million retention, with one reinstatement of
determined to be a catastrophe by the limits.
Company.
Kentucky Earthquake Excess Catastrophe
– Three contracts providing occurrence and Reinsurance Contract is placed in the traditional
aggregate coverage of $425 million of placed market and provides two limits of $28 million, subject
limits, also provide that for each annual period to a $2 million retention with one reinstatement of
beginning April 1, Allstate declared limits.
catastrophes to personal lines property and
Canada Catastrophe Excess of Loss Reinsurance
automobile business can be aggregated to
Contract is placed in the traditional market and
erode the aggregate retention and qualify for
provides CAD 255 million of placed limits, subject to a
coverage under the aggregate limits.
CAD 75 million retention, with one reinstatement of
Recoveries are limited to the ultimate net loss
limits.
from the reinsured event.
The Company has not experienced credit losses on
– Two contracts, providing aggregate coverage
its catastrophe reinsurance programs. The total cost of
of $325 million of placed limits.
the property catastrophe reinsurance program was
Florida program The Florida program provides $1.02 billion, $788 million and $556 million in 2023,
coverage for property policies of CKIC and certain 2022 and 2021, respectively.
affiliate companies for Florida catastrophe events up to
Other reinsurance programs The Company’s
$1.66 billion of a billion of losses less a $40 million
other reinsurance programs relate to commercial lines,
retention. The Florida program includes reinsurance
including shared economy, and asbestos,
agreements placed in the traditional market, the FHCF,
environmental, and other liability exposures. The
the Florida Reinsurance to Assist Policyholders
largest reinsurance recoverable balance the Company
Program (“RAP”) and the ILS market as follows:
had outstanding was $180 million from Lloyd’s of
• Traditional market placements comprise London as of December 31, 2023 and 2022. These
reinsurance limits for losses to personal lines programs also include reinsurance recoverables of $113
property in Florida arising out of multiple perils. million and $183 million from Aleka Insurance Inc. as of
These contracts provide a combined $695 million December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
of limits, with a portion of the traditional market
267 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 12 Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs
Deferred policy acquisition costs activity
Accident and health insurance long-
Accident and
duration contracts
health
insurance
short-
Accident and Traditional Interest- duration Property and
($ in millions) health life sensitive life contracts casualty Total
Year ended December 31, 2023
Beginning balance $ 322 $ 79 $ 101 $ 26 $ 4,914 $ 5,442
Acquisition costs deferred 100 33 16 13 7,614 7,776
Amortization charged to income (73) (21) (14) (10) (7,128) (7,246)
Experience adjustment (28) (1) (3) — — (32)
Ending balance $ 321 $ 90 $ 100 $ 29 $ 5,400 $ 5,940
Year ended December 31, 2022
Beginning balance $ 339 $ 47 $ 90 $ 17 $ 4,245 $ 4,738
Acquisition costs deferred 88 40 27 16 7,167 7,338
Amortization charged to income (77) (7) (15) (7) (6,498) (6,604)
Experience adjustment (28) (1) (1) — — (30)
Ending balance $ 322 $ 79 $ 101 $ 26 $ 4,914 $ 5,442
Year ended December 31, 2021
Beginning balance $ 333 $ 32 $ 97 $ 10 $ 3,304 $ 3,776
Acquisitions (1) 3 — — — 321 324
Acquisition costs deferred 93 26 14 13 6,728 6,874
Amortization charged to income (64) (10) (17) (6) (6,108) (6,205)
Experience adjustment (26) (1) (4) — — (31)
Ending balance $ 339 $ 47 $ 90 $ 17 $ 4,245 $ 4,738
(1) Represents value of business acquired from National General and SafeAuto.
268 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 13 Capital Structure
Total debt outstanding
As of December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022
Floating Rate Senior Notes, due 2023 (1) $ — $ 250
3.150% Senior Notes, due 2023 (2) — 500
6.750% Senior Notes due 2024 (2) (4) 350 350
0.750% Senior Notes, due 2025 (2) 600 600
3.280% Senior Notes, due 2026 (2) 550 550
Due in one year through five years 1,500 2,250
1.450% Senior Notes, due 2030 (2) 600 600
6.125% Senior Notes, due 2032 (2) 159 159
5.250% Senior Notes due 2033 (2) 750 —
5.350% Senior Notes due 2033 (2) 323 323
Due after five years through ten years 1,832 1,082
5.550% Senior Notes due 2035 (2) 546 546
5.950% Senior Notes, due 2036 (2) 386 386
6.900% Senior Debentures, due 2038 165 165
5.200% Senior Notes, due 2042 (2) 62 62
4.500% Senior Notes, due 2043 (2) 500 500
4.200% Senior Notes, due 2046 (2) 700 700
3.850% Senior Notes, due 2049 (2) 500 500
Floating Rate Subordinated Debentures, due 2053 (3) 500 500
Floating Rate Subordinated Debentures, due 2053 (3) 800 800
6.500% Junior Subordinated Debentures, due 2067 500 500
Due after ten years 4,659 4,659
Long-term debt total principal 7,991 7,991
Fair value adjustments (4) 7 26
Debt issuance costs (56) (53)
Total long-term debt 7,942 7,964
Short-term debt (5) — —
Total debt $ 7,942 $ 7,964
(1) 2023 Floating Rate Senior Notes were not redeemable prior to the applicable maturity dates and bear interest at a floating
rate equal to three-month LIBOR, reset quarterly on each interest reset date, plus 0.63% per year.
(2) Senior Notes are subject to redemption at the Company’s option in whole or in part at any time at the greater of either 100%
of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date or the discounted sum of the present values
of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest and accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date.
(3) 2053 Subordinated Debentures became floating rate in 2023.
(4)Debt acquired as part of the National General acquisition completed on January 4, 2021.
(5) The Company classifies any borrowings which have a maturity of twelve months or less at inception as short-term debt.
Debt maturities (“LIBOR”) plus 0.63% per year. On June 15, 2023, the
Company repaid, at maturity, $500 million of 3.15%
Debt maturities for each of the next five years Senior Notes.
and thereafter (excluding issuance costs and other)
($ in millions) Issuance of debt On March 31, 2023, the
2024 $ 350 Company issued $750 million of 5.250% Senior Notes
due 2033. Interest on the Senior Notes is payable semi-
2025 600
annually in arrears on March 30 and September 30 of
2026 550
each year, beginning on September 30, 2023. The
2027 —
Senior Notes are redeemable at any time at the
2028 —
applicable redemption price prior to the maturity date.
Thereafter 6,491 The net proceeds of this issuance were used to repay
Total long-term debt principal $ 7,991 the $500 million senior debt maturity and for general
corporate purposes.
Repayment of debt On March 29, 2023, the
LIBOR-linked debt The administrator of LIBOR
Company repaid, at maturity, $250 million of Floating
ceased the publication of the U.S. dollar (“USD”) LIBOR
Rate Senior Notes that bear interest at a floating rate
settings on June 30, 2023. LIBOR was used as a
equal to three-month London Interbank Offered Rate
269 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
benchmark or reference rate for Subordinated Junior Subordinated Debentures As of December
Debentures that the Company has issued. 31, 2023, the Company had outstanding $500 million of
Series A 6.500% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior
Subordinated Debentures The Subordinated
Subordinated Debentures (“Junior Subordinated
Debentures allow for the use of an alternative
Debentures”). The scheduled maturity date for the
methodology to determine the interest rate if LIBOR is
Debentures is May 15, 2057 with a final maturity date of
no longer available. The Federal Reserve Board
May 15, 2067. The Junior Subordinated Debentures
adopted a final rule that implemented the Adjustable
may be redeemed (i) in whole or in part, at any time on
Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act on December 16, 2022. This
or after May 15, 2037 at the principal amount plus
guidance impacts the alternative rate methodology
accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption,
utilized by the Subordinated Debentures.
or (ii) in certain circumstances, in whole or in part, prior
Both Subordinated Debentures replaced the three- to May 15, 2037 at the principal amount plus accrued
month LIBOR with the CME Term SOFR Reference Rate and unpaid interest to the date of redemption or, if
published for a three-month tenor plus a spread greater, a make-whole price.
adjustment of 0.26161% effective for interest paid
Interest on the Junior Subordinated Debentures is
under the terms of each of the Subordinated
payable semi-annually at the stated fixed annual rate
Debentures after June 30, 2023, as shown in the table
to May 15, 2037, and then payable quarterly at an
below.
annual rate equal to the three-month LIBOR plus
2.120%. The LIBOR Act guidance impacted the
Interest rates for LIBOR-linked debt
alternative rate methodology utilized by the
5.100% 5.750%
Debentures. The Junior Subordinated Debentures
Subordinated Subordinated
Debentures, due Debentures, due replaced the three-month LIBOR with the CME Term
($ in millions) 2053 2053 SOFR Reference Rate published for a three-month
Debt outstanding $ 500 $ 800 tenor plus a spread adjustment of 0.26161%. The
Company may elect at one or more times to defer
Dividend accrual July 15, 2023 August 15, 2023
date (1) payment of interest on the Junior Subordinated
Debentures for one or more consecutive interest
Rate following 3-month SOFR + 3-month SOFR
periods that do not exceed 10 years. Interest
commencement 3.165% + + 2.938% +
date 0.26161% 0.26161% compounds during such deferral periods at the rate in
effect for each period. The interest deferral feature
obligates the Company in certain circumstances to
(1) First dividend accrual date following the last published issue common stock or certain other types of securities
three-month LIBOR rate on June 30, 2023. if it cannot otherwise raise sufficient funds to make the
The Subordinated Debentures may be redeemed required interest payments. The Company has
(i) in whole at any time or in part from time to time on reserved 75 million shares of its authorized and
or after January 15, 2023 for the 5.100% Subordinated unissued common stock to satisfy this obligation.
Debentures and August 15, 2023 for the 5.750%
The terms of the Subordinated Debentures and
Subordinated Debentures at their principal amount
Junior Subordinated Debentures prohibit the Company
plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the
from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions
date of redemption; provided that if the Subordinated
on common or preferred stock or redeeming,
Debentures are not redeemed in whole, at least $25
purchasing, acquiring, or making liquidation payments
million aggregate principal amount must remain
on common stock or preferred stock if the Company
outstanding, or (ii) in whole, but not in part, prior to
has elected to defer interest payments on the
January 15, 2023 for the 5.100% Subordinated
Subordinated Debentures or Junior Subordinated
Debentures and August 15, 2023 for the 5.750%
Debentures, respectively, subject to certain limited
Subordinated Debentures, within 90 days after the
exceptions.
occurrence of certain tax and rating agency events, at
their principal amount or, if greater, a make-whole In connection with the issuance of the Junior
redemption price, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, Subordinated Debentures, the Company entered into a
but excluding, the date of redemption. The 5.750% replacement capital covenant (“RCC”). This covenant
Subordinated Debentures have this make-whole was not intended for the benefit of the holders of the
redemption price provision only when a reduction of Junior Subordinated Debentures and could not be
equity credit assigned by a rating agency has occurred. enforced by them. Rather, it was for the benefit of
holders of one or more other designated series of the
Interest on the 5.100% Subordinated Debentures
Company’s indebtedness (“covered debt”), currently
was payable quarterly at the stated fixed annual rate
the $800 million Floating Rate Subordinated
to January 14, 2023, or any earlier redemption date,
Debentures due in 2053. Pursuant to the RCC, the
and then at an annual rate equal to the three-month
Company has agreed that it will not repay, redeem, or
LIBOR plus 3.165%. Interest on the 5.750%
purchase the Junior Subordinated Debentures on or
Subordinated Debentures was payable semi-annually
before May 15, 2067 (or such earlier date on which the
at the stated fixed annual rate to August 14, 2023, or
RCC terminates by its terms) unless, subject to certain
any earlier redemption date, and then quarterly at an
limitations, the Company has received net cash
annual rate equal to the three-month LIBOR plus
proceeds in specified amounts from the sale of
2.938%.
common stock or certain other qualifying securities.
270 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
The promises and covenants contained in the RCC will the combination of the commercial paper program and
not apply if (i) S&P upgrades the Company’s issuer the credit facility cannot exceed the amount that can
credit rating to A or above, (ii) the Company redeems be borrowed under the credit facility. No amounts were
the Junior Subordinated Debentures due to a tax outstanding under the credit facility as of December 31,
event, (iii) after notice of redemption has been given by 2023 or 2022. The Company had no commercial paper
the Company and a market disruption event occurs outstanding as of December 31, 2023 or 2022.
preventing the Company from raising proceeds in
The Company paid $355 million, $323 million and
accordance with the RCC, or (iv) the Company
$321 million of interest on debt in 2023, 2022 and 2021,
repurchases or redeems up to 10% of the outstanding
respectively.
principal of the Junior Subordinated Debentures in any
one-year period, provided that no more than 25% will The Company had $209 million and $371 million of
be so repurchased, redeemed or purchased in any ten- investment-related debtthat is reported in other
year period. liabilities and accrued expenses as of December 31,
2023 and 2022, respectively.
The RCC terminates in 2067. The RCC will
terminate prior to its scheduled termination date if During 2021, the Company filed a universal shelf
(i) the Junior Subordinated Debentures are no longer registration statement with the Securities and
outstanding and the Company has fulfilled its Exchange Commission (“SEC”) that expires in 2024. The
obligations under the RCC or it is no longer applicable, registration statement covers an unspecified amount
(ii) the holders of a majority of the then-outstanding of securities and can be used to issue debt securities,
principal amount of the then-effective series of common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares,
covered debt consent to agree to the termination of warrants, stock purchase contracts, stock purchase
the RCC, (iii) the Company does not have any series of units and securities of trust subsidiaries.
outstanding debt that is eligible to be treated as
Common stock The Company had 900 million
covered debt under the RCC, (iv) the Junior
shares of issued common stock of which 262 million
Subordinated Debentures are accelerated as a result of
shares were outstanding and 638 million shares were
an event of default, (v) certain rating agency or change
held in treasury as of December 31, 2023. In 2023, the
in control events occur, (vi) S&P, or any successor
Company acquired 3 million shares at an average cost
thereto, no longer assigns a solicited rating on senior
of $118.18 and reissued 2 million net shares under
debt issued or guaranteed by the Company, or (vii) the
equity incentive plans.
termination of the RCC would have no effect on the
equity credit provided by S&P with respect to the Preferred stock All outstanding preferred stock
Junior Subordinated Debentures. An event of default, represents noncumulative perpetual preferred stock
as defined by the supplemental indenture, includes with a $1.00 par value per share and a liquidation
default in the payment of interest or principal and preference of $25,000 per share.
bankruptcy proceedings.
Redemption of preferred stock On April 17, 2023,
Other capital resources To manage short-term the Company redeemed all 23,000 shares of Fixed
liquidity, the Company maintains a commercial paper Rate Noncumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, par
program and a credit facility as a potential source of value $1.00 per share and liquidation preference
funds. In November, 2020, the Company entered into a amount of $25,000 per share, and the corresponding
new unsecured revolving credit facility agreement with depositary shares for a total redemption payment of
a borrowing limit of $750 million. In November 2022, $575 million. The Company recognized $18 million of
the maturity date was extended to November 2027 original issuance costs in preferred stock dividends on
and the USD benchmark rate was amended from the Consolidated Statements of Operations and
LIBOR to SOFR. This facility contains an increase Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity.
provision that would allow up to an additional $500
million of borrowing. This facility has a financial Issuance of preferred stock On May 18, 2023, the
covenant requiring the Company not to exceed a 37.5% Company issued 24,000 shares of Fixed Rate
debt to capitalization ratio as defined in the Noncumulative Preferred Stock, Series J, par value
agreement. Although the right to borrow under the $1.00 per share and liquidation preference amount of
facility is not subject to a minimum rating requirement, $25,000 per share, and the corresponding depositary
the costs of maintaining the facility and borrowing shares for gross proceeds of $600 million.
under it are based on the ratings of the Company’s
senior unsecured, unguaranteed long-term debt. The
total amount outstanding at any point in time under
271 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Total preferred stock outstanding
Aggregate
liquidation
preference Dividend per Aggregate dividend
As of December 31, ($ in millions) depository share (1) payment ($ in millions)
Dividend
2023 2022 2023 2022 rate 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021
Series G (2) — 23,000 $ — $ 575.0 5.625 % $ 0.70 $ 1.41 $ 1.41 $ 16 (3) $ 32 $ 32
Series H 46,000 46,000 1,150.0 1,150.0 5.100 % 1.28 1.28 1.28 59 59 59
Series I 12,000 12,000 300.0 300.0 4.750 % 1.19 1.19 1.19 14 14 14
Series J 24,000 — 600.0 — 7.375 % 0.75 — — 18 — —
National General
Series (4) — — 9
Total 82,000 81,000 $ 2,050 $ 2,025 $ 107 $ 105 $ 114
(1) Each depository share represents a 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock.
(2) On April 17, 2023, the Company redeemed all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock Series G.
(3) Excludes $18 million related to original issuance costs in preferred stock dividends on the Consolidated Statements of Operations
and Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity as a result of the preferred stock redemptions.
(4)On February 2, 2021 and July 15, 2021, the Company redeemed all outstanding shares of National General Series A, B and D, and
National General Preferred Stock Series C, respectively.
The preferred stock ranks senior to the Company’s shall at no time have more than two preferred stock
common stock with respect to the payment of directors.
dividends and liquidation rights. The Company will pay
The preferred stock is perpetual and has no
dividends on the preferred stock on a noncumulative
maturity date. The preferred stock is redeemable at
basis only when, as and if declared by the Company’s
the Company’s option in whole or in part, on or after
board of directors (or a duly authorized committee of
October 15, 2024 for Series H, January 15, 2025 for
the board) and to the extent that the Company has
Series I and July 15, 2028 for Series J at a redemption
legally available funds to pay dividends. If dividends
price of $25,000 per share, plus declared and unpaid
are declared on the preferred stock, they will be
dividends. Prior to October 15, 2024 for Series H,
payable quarterly in arrears at an annual fixed rate.
January 15, 2025 for Series I and July 15, 2028 for Series
Dividends on the preferred stock are not cumulative.
J, the preferred stock is redeemable at the Company’s
Accordingly, in the event dividends are not declared on
option, in whole but not in part, within 90 days after
the preferred stock for payment on any dividend
the occurrence of certain regulatory capital events at a
payment date, then those dividends will cease to be
redemption price equal to $25,000 per share or within
payable. If the Company has not declared a dividend
90 days after the occurrence of a certain rating agency
before the dividend payment date for any dividend
event at a redemption price equal to $25,500 per
period, the Company has no obligation to pay
share, plus declared and unpaid dividends for Series H,
dividends for that dividend period, whether or not
I and J, respectively.
dividends are declared for any future dividend period.
No dividends may be paid or declared on the
Company’s common stock and no shares of the
Company’s common stock may be repurchased unless
the full dividends for the latest completed dividend
period on the preferred stock have been declared and
paid or provided for.
The preferred stock does not have voting rights
except with respect to certain changes in the terms of
the preferred stock, in the case of certain dividend
nonpayments, certain other fundamental corporate
events, mergers or consolidations and as otherwise
provided by law. If and when dividends have not been
declared and paid in full for at least six quarterly
dividend periods or their equivalent (whether or not
consecutive), the authorized number of directors then
constituting the Company’s board of directors will be
increased by two. The holders of the preferred stock,
together with the holders of all other affected classes
and series of voting parity stock, voting as a single
class, will be entitled to elect the two additional
members of the board of directors of the Company,
subject to certain conditions. The board of directors
272 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 14 Company Restructuring
The Company undertakes various programs to Restructuring expenses in 2023primarily relate to
reduce expenses. These programs generally involve a implementing actions to streamline the organization
reduction in staffing levels, and in certain cases, office and outsource operations, and real estate costs related
closures. Restructuring and related charges primarily to facilities being vacated. The Company continues to
include the following costs related to these programs: identify ways to improve operating efficiency and
reduce cost which may result in additional
• Employee - severance and relocation benefits
restructuring charges in the future.
• Exit - contract termination penalties and real estate
Organizational transformation
costs primarily related to accelerated amortization
of right-of-use assets and related leasehold ($ in millions)
improvements at facilities to be vacated Expected program charges $ 95
2023 expenses (91)
The expenses related to these activities are
Remaining program charges $ 4
included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations
as restructuring and related charges and totaled $169
These charges are primarily recorded in the
million, $51 million and $170 million in 2023, 2022 and
Allstate Protection segment. The actions related to the
2021, respectively.
organizational transformation component of the
Transformative Growth plan are substantially complete
as of December 31, 2023.
Restructuring activity during the period
Employee
($ in millions) costs Exit costs Total liability
Restructuring liability as of December 31, 2022 $ 27 $ 7 $ 34
Expense incurred 104 71 175
Adjustments to liability — (6) (6)
Payments and non-cash charges (91) (71) (162)
Restructuring liability as of December 31, 2023 $ 40 $ 1 $ 41
As of December 31, 2023, the cumulative amount incurred to date for active programs related to employee
severance, relocation benefits and exit expenses totaled $103 million for employee costs and $76 million for exit costs.
Note 15 Commitments, Guarantees and Contingent Liabilities
Shared markets and state facility assessments greater of: 2% of the projected deficit or 2% of the
aggregate statewide direct written premium for the
The Company is required to participate in assigned
prior calendar year. The base of assessable insurers
risk plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting
includes all property and casualty premiums in the
associations in various states that provide insurance
state, except workers’ compensation, medical
coverage to individuals or entities that otherwise are
malpractice, accident and health insurance and policies
unable to purchase such coverage from private
written under the NFIP. An insurer may recoup a
insurers.
regular assessment through a surcharge to
The Company routinely reviews its exposure to policyholders. In order to recoup this assessment, an
assessments from these plans, facilities and insurer must file for a policy surcharge with the Florida
government programs. Underwriting results related to Office of Insurance Regulation at least fifteen days
these arrangements, which tend to be adverse, have prior to imposing the surcharge on policies. If a deficit
been immaterial to the Company’s results of remains after the regular assessment, FL Citizens can
operations in the last three years. Because of the also levy emergency assessments in the current and
Company’s participation, it may be exposed to losses subsequent years. Companies are required to collect
that surpass the capitalization of these facilities or the emergency assessments directly from residential
assessments from these facilities. property policyholders and remit to FL Citizens as
collected. Currently, the emergency assessment is zero
Florida Citizens Castle Key is subject to
for all policies issued or renewed on or after July 1,
assessments from Citizens Property Insurance
2015.
Corporation in the state of Florida (“FL Citizens”), which
was initially created by the state of Florida to provide Louisiana Citizens Louisiana Citizens Property
insurance to property owners unable to obtain Insurance Corporation (“LA Citizens”) can levy a regular
coverage in the private insurance market. FL Citizens, assessment on participating companies for a deficit in
at the discretion and direction of its Board of any calendar year up to a maximum of the greater of
Governors, can levy a regular assessment on 10% of the calendar year deficit or 10% of Louisiana
assessable insurers and assessable insureds for a direct property premiums industry-wide for the prior
deficit in any calendar year up to a maximum of the calendar year.If the plan year deficit exceeds the
273 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
amount that can be recovered through regular All future assessments on participating CEA
assessments, LA Citizens may fund the remaining insurers are based on their CEA insurance market
deficit by issuing revenue assessment bonds in the share as of December 31 of the preceding year. As of
capital markets. LA Citizens then declares emergency December 31, 2023, the Company’s market share was
assessments each year to provide debt service on the 8.5%. The Company’s market share will increase 0.3%
bonds until they are retired. Companies writing with the addition of National General as a participating
assessable lines must surcharge their policyholders CEA insurer in 2023. At the current level, the
emergency assessments in the percentage established Company’s maximum possible CEA assessment was
annually by LA Citizens and must remit amounts $141 million during 2023. These amounts are re-
collected to the bond trustee on a quarterly basis. evaluated by the board of directors of the CEA on an
Emergency assessments to pay off bonds issued in annual basis. Accordingly, assessments from the CEA
2007 for the hurricanes of 2005 will continue until for a particular quarter or annual period may be
2025. material to the results of operations and cash flows,
but not the financial position of the Company.
Facilities such as FL Citizens and LA Citizens are
Management believes the Company’s exposure to
generally designed so that the ultimate cost is borne
earthquake losses in California has been significantly
by policyholders; however, the exposure to
reduced as a result of its participation in the CEA.
assessments from these facilities and the availability of
recoupments or premium rate increases may not offset Texas Windstorm Insurance Association The
each other in the Company’s financial statements. Company participates as a member of the Texas
Moreover, even if they do offset each other, they may Windstorm Insurance Association (“TWIA”), which
not offset each other in financial statements for the provides wind and hail property coverage to coastal
same fiscal period due to the ultimate timing of the risks unable to procure coverage in the voluntary
assessments and recoupments or premium rate market. Wind and hail coverage is written on a TWIA-
increases, as well as the possibility of policies not being issued policy. TWIA follows a funding structure first
renewed in subsequent years. utilizing currently available funds set aside from
current and prior years. Under the current law, to the
California Earthquake Authority Exposure to
extent losses exceed premiums received from
certain potential losses from earthquakes in California
policyholders, TWIA utilizes a combination of
is limited by the Company’s participation in the
reinsurance, TWIA issued securities, as well as member
California Earthquake Authority (“CEA”), which provides
and policyholder assessments to fund loss payments.
insurance for California earthquake losses. The CEA is a
privately-financed, publicly-managed state agency Any assessments from TWIA for a particular
created to provide insurance coverage for earthquake quarter or annual period may be material to the results
damage. Insurers selling homeowners insurance in of operations and cash flows, but not to the financial
California are required to offer earthquake insurance to position of the Company.
their customers either through their company or by
North Carolina Joint Underwriters Association The
participation in the CEA. The Company’s homeowners
North Carolina Joint Underwriters Association
policies continue to include coverages for losses
(“NCJUA”) was created to provide property insurance
caused by explosions, theft, glass breakage and fires
for properties, other than the state’s beach and coastal
following an earthquake, which are not underwritten by
areas, that insurers are not otherwise willing to insure.
the CEA.
All insurers licensed to write property insurance in
As of October 31, 2023, the CEA’s capital balance North Carolina are members of the NCJUA. Premiums,
was approximately $6.00 billion. Should losses arising losses and expenses of the NCJUA are shared by the
from an earthquake cause a deficit in the CEA, an member companies in proportion to their respective
additional $2.10 billion would be obtained from the North Carolina property insurance writings. Member
proceeds of revenue bonds the CEA may issue, an companies participate in plan deficits or surpluses
existing $9.30 billion reinsurance layer, $1.00 billion based on their participation ratios, which are
from policy surcharge, and finally, if needed, determined annually. The Company had a $7 million
assessments on participating insurance companies. receivable from the NCJUA at December 31, 2023
Participating insurers are required to pay an representing its participation in the NCJUA’s surplus of
assessment, currently estimated not to exceed $1.70 $10 million for all open years.
billion, if the capital of the CEA falls below $350 million.
North Carolina Insurance Underwriting Association
Within the limits previously described, the assessment
The North Carolina Insurance Underwriting Association
could be intended to restore the CEA’s capital to a
(“NCIUA”) provides property insurance, including
level of $350 million. There is no provision that allows
windstorm and hail coverage, for properties located in
insurers to recover assessments through a premium
the state’s beach and coastal areas that insurers are
surcharge or other mechanism. The CEA’s projected
not otherwise willing to insure. All insurers licensed to
aggregate claim paying capacity is $20.10 billion as of
write residential and commercial property insurance in
October 31, 2023 and if an event were to result in
North Carolina are members of the NCIUA. Members
claims greater than its capacity, affected policyholders
are assessed in proportion to their North Carolina
may be paid a prorated portion of their covered losses,
residential and commercial property insurance
paid on an installment basis, or no payments may be
writings, which is determined annually and varies by
made if the claim paying capacity of the CEA is
coverage, for plan deficits. As of December 31, 2023,
insufficient.
274 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
the NCIUA had a surplus of $1.03 billion. No member Historically, the Company has not made any material
company is entitled to the distribution of any portion of payments pursuant to these obligations.
the NCIUA’s surplus. The Company does not recognize
Related to the sale of ALNY on October 1, 2021, AIC
any interest related to this surplus. Legislation in 2009
agreed to indemnify Wilton Reassurance Company in
capped insurers’ assessments for losses incurred in
connection with certain representations, warranties
any calendar year at $1.00 billion. Subsequent to an
and covenants of AIC, and certain liabilities specifically
industry assessment of $1.00 billion, if the plan
excluded from the transaction, subject to specific
continues to require funding, it may authorize insurers
contractual limitations regarding AIC’s maximum
to assess a 10% catastrophe recovery charge on each
obligation. Management does not believe these
property insurance policy statewide to be remitted to
indemnifications will have a material effect on results of
the plan.
operations, cash flows or financial position of the
Other programs The Company is also subject to Company.
assessments by the NCRF and the FHCF, which are
Related to the sale of ALIC and Allstate Assurance
described in Note 11.
Company on November 1, 2021, AIC and Allstate
Guaranty funds Financial Insurance Holdings Corporation (collectively,
the “Sellers”) agreed to indemnify Everlake US Holdings
Under state insurance guaranty fund laws, insurers
Company in connection with certain representations,
doing business in a state can be assessed, up to
warranties and covenants of the Sellers, and certain
prescribed limits, for certain obligations of insolvent
liabilities specifically excluded from the transaction,
insurance companies to policyholders and claimants.
subject to specific contractual limitations regarding the
Amounts assessed to each company are typically
Sellers’ maximum obligation. Management does not
related to its proportion of business written in each
believe these indemnifications will have a material
state. The Company’s policy is to accrue assessments
effect on results of operations, cash flows or financial
when the entity for which the insolvency relates has
position of the Company.
met its state of domicile’s statutory definition of
insolvency, the amount of the loss is reasonably The aggregate liability balance related to all
estimable and the related premium upon which the guarantees was not material as of December 31, 2023.
assessment is based is written. In most states, the
Regulation and compliance
definition is met with a declaration of financial
insolvency by a court of competent jurisdiction. In The Company is subject to extensive laws,
certain states there must also be a final order of regulations, administrative directives, and regulatory
liquidation. Since most states allow a credit against actions. From time to time, regulatory authorities or
premium or other state related taxes for assessments, legislative bodies seek to influence and restrict
an asset is recorded based on paid and accrued premium rates, require premium refunds to
assessments for the amount the Company expects to policyholders, require reinstatement of terminated
recover on the respective state’s tax return and is policies, prescribe rules or guidelines on how affiliates
realized over the period allowed by each state. As of compete in the marketplace, restrict the ability of
December 31, 2023 and 2022, the liability balance insurers to cancel or non-renew policies, require
included in other liabilities and accrued expenses was insurers to continue to write new policies or limit their
$23 million and $29 million, respectively. The related ability to write new policies, limit insurers’ ability to
premium tax offsets included in other assets were $5 change coverage terms or to impose underwriting
million and $6 million as of December 31, 2023 and standards, impose additional regulations regarding
2022, respectively. agency and broker compensation, regulate the nature
of and amount of investments, impose fines and
Guarantees
penalties for unintended errors or mistakes, impose
In the normal course of business, the Company additional regulations regarding cybersecurity and
provides standard indemnifications to contractual privacy, and otherwise expand overall regulation of
counterparties in connection with numerous insurance products and the insurance industry. In
transactions, including acquisitions and divestitures. addition, the Company is subject to laws and
The types of indemnifications typically provided regulations administered and enforced by federal
include indemnifications for breaches of agencies, international agencies, and other
representations and warranties, taxes and certain organizations, including but not limited to the
other liabilities, such as third-party lawsuits. The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), the
indemnification clauses are often standard contractual Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the U.S. Equal
terms and are entered into in the normal course of Employment Opportunity Commission, and the U.S.
business based on an assessment that the risk of loss Department of Justice. The Company has established
would be remote. The terms of the indemnifications procedures and policies to facilitate compliance with
vary in duration and nature. In many cases, the laws and regulations, to foster prudent business
maximum obligation is not explicitly stated and the operations, and to support financial reporting. The
contingencies triggering the obligation to indemnify Company routinely reviews its practices to validate
have not occurred and are not expected to occur. compliance with laws and regulations and with internal
Consequently, the maximum amount of the obligation procedures and policies. As a result of these reviews,
under such indemnifications is not determinable. from time to time the Company may decide to modify
some of its procedures and policies. Such
275 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
modifications, and the reviews that led to them, may forms of relief, including penalties, restitution, and
be accompanied by payments being made and costs changes in business practices. The Company may not
being incurred. The ultimate changes and eventual be advised of the nature and extent of relief sought
effects of these actions on the Company’s business, if until the final stages of the examination or proceeding.
any, are uncertain.
Accrual and disclosure policy The Company
Legal and regulatory proceedings and inquiries reviews its lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and other
legal proceedings on an ongoing basis and follows
The Company and certain subsidiaries are involved
appropriate accounting guidance when making accrual
in a number of lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and other
and disclosure decisions. The Company establishes
legal proceedings arising out of various aspects of its
accruals for such matters at management’s best
business.
estimate when the Company assesses that it is
Background These matters raise difficult and probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount
complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company
many uncertainties and complexities, including the does not establish accruals for such matters when the
underlying facts of each matter; novel legal issues; Company does not believe both that it is probable that
variations between jurisdictions in which matters are a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss
being litigated, heard, or investigated; changes in can be reasonably estimated. The Company’s
assigned judges; differences or developments in assessment of whether a loss is reasonably possible or
applicable laws and judicial interpretations; judges probable is based on its assessment of the ultimate
reconsidering prior rulings; the length of time before outcome of the matter following all appeals. The
many of these matters might be resolved by Company does not include potential recoveries in its
settlement, through litigation, or otherwise; estimates of reasonably possible or probable losses.
adjustments with respect to anticipated trial schedules Legal fees are expensed as incurred.
and other proceedings; developments in similar
The Company continues to monitor its lawsuits,
actions against other companies; the fact that some of
regulatory inquiries, and other legal proceedings for
the lawsuits are putative class actions in which a class
further developments that would make the loss
has not been certified and in which the purported class
contingency both probable and estimable, and
may not be clearly defined; the fact that some of the
accordingly accruable, or that could affect the amount
lawsuits involve multi-state class actions in which the
of accruals that have been previously established.
applicable law(s) for the claims at issue is in dispute
There may continue to be exposure to loss in excess of
and therefore unclear; and the challenging legal
any amount accrued. Disclosure of the nature and
environment faced by corporations and insurance
amount of an accrual is made when there have been
companies.
sufficient legal and factual developments such that the
The outcome of these matters may be affected by Company’s ability to resolve the matter would not be
decisions, verdicts, and settlements, and the timing of impaired by the disclosure of the amount of accrual.
such decisions, verdicts, and settlements, in other
When the Company assesses it is reasonably
individual and class action lawsuits that involve the
possible or probable that a loss has been incurred, it
Company, other insurers, or other entities and by other
discloses the matter. When it is possible to estimate
legal, governmental, and regulatory actions that
the reasonably possible loss or range of loss above the
involve the Company, other insurers, or other entities.
amount accrued, if any, for the matters disclosed, that
The outcome may also be affected by future state or
estimate is aggregated and disclosed. Disclosure is not
federal legislation, the timing or substance of which
required when an estimate of the reasonably possible
cannot be predicted.
loss or range of loss cannot be made.
In the lawsuits, plaintiffs seek a variety of remedies
For certain of the matters described below in the
which may include equitable relief in the form of
“Claims related proceedings” and “Other proceedings”
injunctive and other remedies and monetary relief in
subsections, the Company is able to estimate the
the form of contractual and extra-contractual
reasonably possible loss or range of loss above the
damages. In some cases, the monetary damages
amount accrued, if any. In determining whether it is
sought may include punitive or treble damages. Often
possible to estimate the reasonably possible loss or
specific information about the relief sought, such as
range of loss, the Company reviews and evaluates the
the amount of damages, is not available because
disclosed matters, in conjunction with counsel, in light
plaintiffs have not requested specific relief in their
of potentially relevant factual and legal developments.
pleadings. When specific monetary demands are made,
they are often set just below a state court jurisdictional These developments may include information
limit in order to seek the maximum amount available in learned through the discovery process, rulings on
state court, regardless of the specifics of the case, dispositive motions, settlement discussions,
while still avoiding the risk of removal to federal court. information obtained from other sources, experience
In Allstate’s experience, monetary demands in from managing these and other matters, and other
pleadings bear little relation to the ultimate loss, if any, rulings by courts, arbitrators or others. When the
to the Company. Company possesses sufficient appropriate information
to develop an estimate of the reasonably possible loss
In connection with regulatory examinations and
or range of loss above the amount accrued, if any, that
proceedings, government authorities may seek various
estimate is aggregated and disclosed below. There
276 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
may be other disclosed matters for which a loss is where the federal district court denied class
probable or reasonably possible, but such an estimate certification and plaintiff’s request to file a renewed
is not possible. Disclosure of the estimate of the motion for class certification. In Revival, on June 2,
reasonably possible loss or range of loss above the 2022, the Eleventh Circuit certified to the Florida
amount accrued, if any, for any individual matter would Supreme Court Allstate’s appeal of the federal district
only be considered when there have been sufficient court’s interpretation of the state personal injury
legal and factual developments such that the protection statute. The Eleventh Circuit is holding
Company’s ability to resolve the matter would not be determination on plaintiff’s class certification appeal
impaired by the disclosure of the individual estimate. pending the outcome of the Florida Supreme Court
certification. The oral argument before the Florida
The Company currently estimates that the
Supreme Court was on March 8, 2023. The Company is
aggregate range of reasonably possible loss in excess
also defending litigation involving individual plaintiffs.
of the amount accrued, if any, for the disclosed matters
where such an estimate is possible is zero to $56 The Company is defending putative class actions
million, pre-tax. This disclosure is not an indication of in various courts that raise challenges to the
expected loss, if any. Under accounting guidance, an Company’s depreciation practices in homeowner
event is “reasonably possible” if “the chance of the property claims. In these lawsuits, plaintiffs generally
future event or events occurring is more than remote allege that, when calculating actual cash value, the
but less than likely” and an event is “remote” if “the costs of “non-materials” such as labor, general
chance of the future event or events occurring is contractor’s overhead and profit, and sales tax should
slight.” This estimate is based upon currently available not be subject to depreciation. The Company is
information and is subject to significant judgment and currently defending the following lawsuits on this
a variety of assumptions and known and unknown issue: Sims, et al. v. Allstate Fire and Casualty Insurance
uncertainties. The matters underlying the estimate will Company, et al. (W.D. Tex. filed June 2022); Thompson,
change from time to time, and actual results may vary et al. v. Allstate Insurance Company (Circuit Court of
significantly from the current estimate. The estimate Cole Co., Mo. filed June 2022); Hill v. Allstate Vehicle
does not include matters or losses for which an and Property Insurance Company (Circuit Court of Cole
estimate is not possible. Therefore, this estimate Co., Mo. filed October 2022); Tabuga v. AllstateVehicle
represents an estimate of possible loss only for certain and Property Insurance Company (D. Md. filed April
matters meeting these criteria. It does not represent 2023); and Hernandez v. Allstate Vehicle and Property
the Company’s maximum possible loss exposure. Insurance Company (D. Ariz. filed April 2023) (the
Information is provided below regarding the nature of Shumway plaintiff was substituted with Hernandez). No
all of the disclosed matters and, where specified, the classes have been certified in any of these matters.
amount, if any, of plaintiff claims associated with these
The Company is defending putative class actions
loss contingencies.
pending in multiple states alleging that the Company
Due to the complexity and scope of the matters underpays total loss vehicle physical damage claims on
disclosed in the “Claims related proceedings” and auto policies. The alleged systematic underpayments
“Other proceedings” subsections below and the many result from the following theories: (a) the third-party
uncertainties that exist, the ultimate outcome of these valuation tool used by the Company as part of a
matters cannot be predicted and in the Company’s comprehensive adjustment process is allegedly flawed,
judgment, a loss, in excess of amounts accrued, if any, biased, or contrary to applicable law; and/or (b) the
is not probable. In the event of an unfavorable Company allegedly does not pay sales tax, title fees,
outcome in one or more of these matters, the ultimate registration fees, and/or other specified fees that are
liability may be in excess of amounts currently accrued, allegedly mandatory under policy language or state
if any, and may be material to the Company’s operating legal authority.
results or cash flows for a particular quarterly or annual
The Company is currently defending the following
period. However, based on information currently known
lawsuits: Kronenberg v. Allstate Insurance Company
to it, management believes that the ultimate outcome
and Allstate Fire and Casualty Insurance Company
of all matters described below, as they are resolved
(E.D.N.Y. filed December 2018); Durgin v. Allstate
over time, is not likely to have a material effect on the
Property and Casualty Insurance Company (W.D. La.
financial position of the Company.
filed June 2019); Golla v. Allstate Insurance Company
Claims related proceedings The Company is (N.D. Ohio filed June 2023); Bibbs v. Allstate Insurance
managing various disputes in Florida that raise Company and Allstate Fire and Casualty Insurance
challenges to the Company’s practices, processes, and Company (N.D. Ohio filed August 2023); Hail v. Allstate
procedures relating to claims for personal injury Property and Casualty Insurance Company (State Court
protection benefits under Florida auto policies. Medical of Habersham Co., Ga. filed December 2023); and Katz
providers continue to pursue litigation under various v. Esurance Property and Casualty Insurance Company
theories that challenge the amounts that the Company and National General Insurance Company (E.D.N.Y. filed
pays under the personal injury protection coverage, February 2024).No classes have been certified in any
seeking additional benefit payments, as well as of these matters.
applicable interest, penalties and fees. There is a
Settlements in principle have been reached in the
pending lawsuit, Revival Chiropractic v. Allstate
following cases: Bass v. Imperial Fire and Casualty
Insurance Company, et al. (M.D. Fla. filed January 2019;
Insurance Company (W.D. La. filed February 2022); and
appeal pending, Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals),
277 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Cummings v. Allstate Property and Casualty Insurance Inre The Allstate Corp. Securities Litigation is a
Company (M.D. La. filed April 2022). certified class action filed on November 11, 2016, in the
United States District Court for the Northern District of
The Company is defending putative class actions
Illinois against the Company and two of its officers
in Arizona federal court that are alleging underpayment
asserting claims under the federal securities laws.
of uninsured/underinsured motorist claims. The
Plaintiffs allege that they purchased Allstate common
lawsuits are Dorazio v. Allstate Fire and Casualty
stock during the class period and suffered damages as
Insurance Company (D. Ariz. filed December 2022) and
the result of the conduct alleged. Plaintiffs seek an
Loughran v. MIC General Insurance Corporation (D. Ariz.
unspecified amount of damages, costs, attorney’s fees,
filed December 2022). The plaintiffs allege that
and other relief as the court deems appropriate.
uninsured/underinsured motorist coverages must be
Plaintiffs allege that the Company and certain senior
stacked where the defendants allegedly did not
officers made allegedly material misstatements or
include specified policy language and did not provide
omissions concerning claim frequency statistics and
specified notice to policyholders. No classes have been
the reasons for a claim frequency increase for Allstate
certified in these matters. In July 2023, the Arizona
brand auto insurance between October 2014 and
Supreme Court issued a ruling in Franklin v. CSAA
August 3, 2015.
General Insurance, a matter involving another insurer.
The Franklin decision held, under the factual Plaintiffs further allege that a senior officer
circumstances of that case, that stacking of uninsured/ engaged in stock option exercises during that time
underinsured motorist coverages was required allegedly while in possession of material nonpublic
because the insurer did not include specified policy information about Allstate brand auto insurance claim
language and did not issue specified notice. frequency. The Company, its chairman, president and
chief executive officer, and its former president are the
The Company is currently defending its insureds
named defendants. After the court denied their motion
against plaintiffs’ bodily injury lawsuit stemming from a
to dismiss on February 27, 2018, defendants answered
2018 automobile accident, Equihua v. Chausse and
the complaint, denying plaintiffs’ allegations that there
Nash (Superior Court of Los Angeles Co., Cal. filed Jan.
was any misstatement or omission or other
2019). On August 18, 2021, a jury returned a verdict
misconduct. On June 22, 2018, plaintiffs filed their
against the insureds. The Company then moved to
motion for class certification. The court allowed the
intervene in the lawsuit on September 9, 2021 and
lead plaintiffs to amend their complaint to add the City
together with the insureds, sought to vacate the
of Providence Employee Retirement System as a
judgment and to obtain a new trial. On November 2,
proposed class representative and on September 12,
2021, the trial court denied the post-trial motions to
2018, the amended complaint was filed. A class was
vacate the judgment and for a new trial and the
certified on March 26, 2019, vacated by the U.S. Court
Company’s motion to intervene. The Company and the
of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit on July 16, 2020 and
insureds subsequently filed an appeal with the
remanded for further consideration by the district
California Court of Appeal, Second District, which
court. On December 21, 2020, the district court again
affirmed judgment in favor of plaintiffs on November 6,
granted plaintiffs’ motion for class certification and
2023. On December 18, 2023, the insureds filed a
certified a class consisting of all persons who
petition for review with the California Supreme Court.
purchased Allstate common stock between October
On February 14, 2024, the California Supreme Court
29, 2014 and August 3, 2015. Defendants’ petition for
entered an order denying the petition for review.
permission to appeal this ruling was denied on January
Other proceedings The Company has pending an 28, 2021. Following the close of discovery, defendants
investigatory hearing before the California Insurance moved for summary judgment on March 23, 2022. On
Commissioner concerning the private passenger July 26, 2022, the court entered its order granting
automobile insurance rating practices of Allstate summary judgment in part (as to plaintiffs’ claims
Insurance Company and Allstate Indemnity Company relating to certain statements made in October 2014)
in California. The investigatory hearing is captioned In and denying it as to the remainder of plaintiffs’ claims.
the Matter of the Rating Practices of Allstate Insurance On January 10, 2023, the parties filed a joint pre-trial
Company and Allstate Indemnity Company. Pursuant to order. A pre-trial conference did not occur.
the Notice of Hearing issued by the California Subsequently, on June 28, 2023, the parties reached
Insurance Commissioner, the California Insurance an agreement in principle to settle the action, without
Commissioner is investigating: (1) whether Allstate has any admission of liability or wrongdoing. On September
potentially violated California insurance law by using 26, 2023, an order was entered by the district court
illegal price optimization; (2) how Allstate implemented granting preliminary approval of the class settlement.
any such potentially illegal price optimization in its On December 19, 2023, the district court granted final
private passenger auto insurance rates and/or class approval of the class settlement. No appeal was filed.
plans; and (3) how such potentially illegal price
The Company is continuing to defend two putative
optimization impacted Allstate’s private passenger
class actions in California federal court, Holland Hewitt
auto insurance policyholders. Fact discovery was
v. Allstate Life Insurance Company (E.D. Cal. filed May
completed in the investigatory hearing. Allstate and
2020) and Farley v. Lincoln Benefit LifeCompany (E.D.
the California Department of Insurance have reached
Cal. filed Dec. 2020), following the sale of ALIC. On April
an agreement in principle to resolve the investigatory
19, 2023, the district court certified a class in Farley.
hearing. The May 22, 2023 hearing was continued. A
LBL is appealing the district court’s order in the Ninth
new hearing date has not been set.
Circuit Court of Appeals. There has been no ruling on
278 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
plaintiff’s motion for class certification in Hewitt. In other insurance carriers. In August 2021, the California
these cases, plaintiffs generally allege that the Supreme Court in McHugh v. Protective Life, a matter
defendants failed to comply with certain California involving another insurer, determined that the
statutes which address contractual grace periods and statutory notice requirements apply to life insurance
lapse notice requirements for certain life insurance policies issued before the statutes’ effective date. The
policies. Plaintiffs claim that these statutes apply to life Company asserts various defenses to plaintiffs’ claims
insurance policies that existed before the statutes’ and to class certification.
effective date. The plaintiffs seek damages and
injunctive relief. Similar litigation is pending against
Note 16 Income Taxes
The Company and its eligible domestic subsidiaries 15% Global Minimum Tax The Organization for
file a U.S. consolidated federal income tax return. The Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”)
Company also files tax returns in various states and secured agreement from nearly 140 countries to
foreign jurisdictions. Tax liabilities and benefits realized address how corporate profits are taxed for
by the consolidated group are allocated as generated multinational enterprises (“MNEs”). OECD has released
by the respective entities. Pillar Two Model Rules, a 15% minimum effective tax
rate (also known as the Global Anti-Base Erosion
Deferred income taxes result from temporary
“GloBE” Rules), designed to ensure that large MNEs
differences between the tax basis of assets and
pay a minimum level of tax on the income arising in
liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial
each jurisdiction where they operate and mandates
statements that will result in taxable or deductible
sharing of certain company information with taxing
amounts in future years. Deferred tax assets and
authorities on a local and global basis.
liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates
expected to apply to taxable income in years in which Certain jurisdictions have enacted, and others have
those temporary differences are expected to be proposed, legislation to implement certain provisions
recovered or settled. Deferred tax assets and liabilities of Pillar Two for fiscal years beginning on or after
are adjusted through income tax expense as changes December 31, 2023. The Company is continuing to
in tax laws or rates are enacted. monitor the implications resulting from the potential
enactment of Pillar Two rules in the jurisdictions where
Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 The Inflation
it operates.
Reduction Act of 2022 (“Act”), which contains several
tax-related provisions, was signed into law on August Regulatory tax examinations On January 4, 2021
16, 2022. The Act created a 15% corporate alternative and October 1, 2021, the Company acquired National
minimum tax (“CAMT”) on certain large corporations General and SafeAuto, respectively. For tax years prior
and an excise tax of 1% on stock repurchases by to the acquisition, National General is under a separate
publicly traded U.S. corporations, both effective after audit by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). The IRS
December 31, 2022. The excise tax on common stock has completed its exam of Allstate’s tax years prior to
repurchases is classified as an additional cost of the 2017 and National General tax years prior to 2015.
stock acquired included in treasury stock in Currently, the Company is under exam for the 2017 and
shareholders' equity. 2018 tax years and National General is under exam for
the 2015 through 2019 tax years. The Company
In addition, under the CAMT rules, the Company
believes that adequate provision has been made in the
has determined that it is considered an “Applicable
consolidated financial statements for any potential
Corporation” which requires computation of federal
adjustments that may result from IRS examinations or
income tax liability under two tax systems, the U.S.
any other tax authorities related to all open tax years.
regular corporate tax and the CAMT. Although the
CAMT may apply in any given year where the CAMT Unrecognized tax benefits The Company
liability exceeds the regular tax liability, the CAMT recognizes tax positions in the consolidated financial
would generate a non-expiring tax credit carryforward statements only when it is more likely than not that the
which would be accounted for as a deferred tax asset. position will be sustained on examination by the
The CAMT credit can be used to reduce regular tax in relevant taxing authority based on the technical merits
future years when the regular tax liability is greater of the position. A position that meets this standard is
than the CAMT liability. measured at the largest amount of benefit that will
more likely than not be realized on settlement. A
The impact of a change in tax law is required to be
liability is established for differences between positions
recognized in the period of enactment. As such in
taken in a tax return and amounts recognized in the
assessing the realizability of our deferred tax assets,
consolidated financial statements.
including determination of valuation allowance, the
Company has made an accounting policy election to
evaluate the realizability of deferred tax assets
excluding the impact of the CAMT.
279 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Reconciliation of the change in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Balance – beginning of year $ 17 $ 17 $ 12
Acquisitions — — 5
Increase for tax positions taken in a prior year 23 — —
Increase for tax positions taken in the current year 5 — —
Balance – end of year $ 45 $ 17 $ 17
The Company believes that it is reasonably expense and penalties in operating costs and
possible that a portion of the unrecognized tax expenses. For the years ended December 31, 2023,
benefits could decrease within the next twelve months 2022, and 2021, interest expense related to
as a result of the lapse of the applicable statute of unrecognized tax benefits of $7 million, $3 million, and
limitations, which is not expected to be material to the zero was recorded, respectively. The total accrued
financial statements. interest expense and penalties as of December 31,
2023 and 2022 were $24 million and $17 million,
The Company recognizes interest expense related
respectively.
to uncertain tax benefits in income tax (benefit)
Components of the deferred income tax assets and liabilities
As of December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022
Deferred tax assets
Unearned premium reserves $ 897 $ 815
Discount on loss reserves 269 228
Net operating loss carryover 258 97
Research & development capitalization 228 219
Unrealized net capital losses 174 609
Accrued compensation 121 128
General business credits carryover 110 —
Pension 26 10
Other postretirement benefits 13 15
Other 110 95
Total deferred tax assets before valuation allowance 2,206 2,216
Valuation allowance (69) (34)
Total deferred tax assets after valuation allowance 2,137 2,182
Deferred tax liabilities
DAC (1,075) (1,018)
Investments (455) (431)
Intangible assets (99) (147)
Other (289) (204)
Total deferred tax liabilities (1,918) (1,800)
Net deferred tax assets $ 219 $ 382
As of December 31, 2023, the Company has U.S. making this assessment, as well as limitations on use in
federal, state and foreign net operating loss (“NOL”) future periods. Accordingly, management believes that
and general business credit carryforwards. In assessing it is more likely than not that the benefit from certain
the realizability of gross deferred tax assets, NOL carryforwards will not be fully realized. The
management considers whether it is more likely than Company has a valuation allowance of $69 million on
not that some portion or all of the gross deferred tax the deferred tax assets related to these NOL
assets will not be realized. Management considers the carryforwards.
scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected
future taxable income and tax planning strategies in
280 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
The following table sets forth the amounts and expiration dates of federal, foreign, state net operating loss
carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards.
Components of the net operating loss carryforwards as of December 31, 2023
20-Year 20-Year
Carryforward Carryforward
Expires in Expires in
($ in millions) 2025-2043 Indefinite 2043 Various
U.S. Federal NOL $ 255 $ 12 $ — $ —
Foreign NOL — 398 — —
State NOL (1) — — — 134
U.S. Federal general business credits — — 110 —
(1) Multiple state net operating loss carryforwards expiring in various periods, beginning in 2029.
Components of income tax expense
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Current $ 114 $ (35) $ 841
Deferred (249) (453) 451
Total income tax (benefit) expense $ (135) $ (488) $ 1,292
The Company received an income tax refund of $45 million in 2023, and paid income taxes of $95 million and $1.05
billion in 2022 and 2021, respectively.
The Company had current income tax receivable of $663 million and $677 million as of December 31, 2023 and
2022, respectively.
Reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to the effective income tax rate
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
(Loss) income before income taxes $ (348) $ (1,830) $ 6,466
Statutory federal income tax rate on income from
operations (73) 21.0 % (384) 21.0 % 1,357 21.0 %
Tax credits (47) 13.5 (55) 3.0 (42) (0.6)
Tax-exempt income (23) 6.6 (17) 0.9 (18) (0.3)
U.S. shareholder’s tax (benefit) expense (17) 4.9 13 (0.7) 4 0.1
Share-based payments (14) 4.0 (22) 1.2 (18) (0.3)
State income taxes (7) 2.0 — — 13 0.2
Dividend received deduction (4) 1.1 (7) 0.4 (5) (0.1)
Uncertain tax positions 33 (9.5) 2 (0.1) — —
Change in valuation allowance 6 (1.7) 10 (0.6) (3) (0.1)
Other 11 (3.1) (28) 1.6 4 0.1
Effective income tax rate on income from
operations $ (135) 38.8 % $ (488) 26.7 % $ 1,292 20.0 %
Note 17 Statutory Financial Information and Dividend Limitations
Allstate’s domestic property and casualty and life, All states require domiciled insurance companies
accident and health insurance subsidiaries prepare to prepare statutory-basis financial statements in
their statutory-basis financial statements in conformity conformity with the NAIC Accounting Practices and
with accounting practices prescribed or permitted by Procedures Manual, subject to any deviations
the insurance department of the applicable state of prescribed or permitted by the applicable insurance
domicile. Prescribed statutory accounting practices commissioner or director. Statutory accounting
include a variety of publications of the NAIC, as well as practices differ from GAAP primarily since they require
state laws, regulations and general administrative charging policy acquisition costs to expense as
rules. Permitted statutory accounting practices incurred, establishing life insurance reserves based on
encompass all accounting practices not so prescribed. different actuarial assumptions, and valuing certain
investments and establishing deferred taxes on a
different basis.
281 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Statutory net income (loss) and capital and surplus of Allstate’s domestic insurance subsidiaries
Net income (loss) Capital and surplus
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022
Amounts by major business type:
Property and casualty insurance $ (487) $ (1,653) $ 5,975 $ 14,250 $ 14,997
Life, accident and health insurance 61 70 96 310 279
Life and annuity business sold — — 1,642 — —
Amount per statutory accounting practices $ (426) $ (1,583) $ 7,713 $ 14,560 $ 15,276
Dividend Limitations than the minimum capital requirement applicable to
the types of insurance they are authorized to write.
There are no regulatory restrictions that limit the
Insurance companies are also subject to risk-based
payment of dividends by the Corporation, except those
capital (“RBC”) requirements adopted by state
generally applicable to corporations incorporated in
insurance regulators. A company’s “authorized control
Delaware. Dividends are payable only out of certain
level RBC” is calculated using various factors applied to
components of shareholders’ equity as permitted by
certain financial balances and activity. Companies that
Delaware law. However, the ability of the Corporation
do not maintain adjusted statutory capital and surplus
to pay dividends is dependent on business conditions,
at a level in excess of the company action level RBC,
income, cash requirements of the Company, receipt of
which is two times authorized control level RBC, are
dividends from AIC and other relevant factors.
required to notify and file a RBC remediation plan to
The payment of shareholder dividends by AIC the domiciliary regulator and provide a copy of the
without the prior approval of the Illinois Department of remediation plan to state insurance regulators in which
Insurance (“IL DOI”) is limited to formula amounts the insurer is authorized to do business. Company
based on net income and capital and surplus, action level RBC is significantly in excess of the
determined in conformity with statutory accounting minimum capital requirements. Total adjusted
practices, as well as the timing and amount of statutory capital and surplus and authorized control
dividends paid in the preceding twelve months. There level RBC of AIC were $11.99 billion and $3.07 billion,
were no dividends paid by AIC in 2023. The maximum respectively, as of December 31, 2023. Most of the
amount of dividends AIC will be able to pay without Corporation’s insurance subsidiaries are subsidiaries of
prior IL DOI approval at a given point in time during or reinsure all of their business to AIC. AIC’s
2024 is $1.20 billion, less dividends paid during the subsidiaries are included as a component of AIC’s total
preceding twelve months measured at that point in statutory capital and surplus.
time. The payment of a dividend in excess of this
The amount of restricted net assets, as
amount requires 30 days advance written notice to the
represented by the Corporation’s investment in its
IL DOI. The dividend is deemed approved, unless the IL
insurance subsidiaries, was $21.18 billion as of
DOI disapproves it within the 30-day notice period.
December 31, 2023.
Additionally, any dividend must be paid out of
unassigned surplus excluding unrealized appreciation Intercompany transactions
from investments, which for AIC totaled $7.15 billion as
Notification and approval of intercompany lending
of December 31, 2023, and cannot result in capital and
activities is also required by the IL DOI for transactions
surplus being less than the minimum amount required
that exceed a level that is based on a formula using
by law.
statutory admitted assets and statutory surplus.
Under state insurance laws, insurance companies
are required to maintain paid up capital of not less
Note 18 Benefit Plans
Pension and other postretirement plans The Company also provides a medical coverage
subsidy for eligible employees hired before January 1,
Defined benefit pension plans cover most U.S.
2003, including their eligible dependents, when they
employees. Benefits under the U.S. pension plans are
retire and certain life insurance benefits for eligible
based upon the employee’s length of service, eligible
retirees (“postretirement benefits”). Effective January 1,
annual compensation and, prior to January 1, 2014,
2021, the Company eliminated the medical coverage
either a cash balance or final average pay formula. A
subsidy for employees who were not eligible to retire
cash balance formula applies to all eligible employees
as of December 31, 2020.
hired after August 1, 2002. Eligible employees hired
before August 1, 2002 chose between the cash balance Certain employees may become eligible for a
formula and the final average pay formula. In July 2013, medical subsidy if they retire in accordance with the
the Company amended its primary plans effective terms of the applicable plans and are insured under
January 1, 2014 to introduce a new cash balance the Company’s group plans or other approved plans in
formula to replace the previous formulas (including the accordance with the plan’s participation requirements.
final average pay formula and the previous cash The Company shares the cost of retiree medical
balance formula) under which eligible employees benefits with non Medicare-eligible retirees based on
accrue benefits. years of service, with the Company’s share being
282 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
subject to a 5% limit on future annual medical cost The Company has reserved the right to modify or
inflation after retirement. For Medicare-eligible terminate its benefit plans at any time and for any
retirees, the Company provides a fixed Company reason.
contribution based on years of service and other
Obligations and funded status
factors, which is not subject to adjustments for
inflation. The Company calculates benefit obligations based
upon generally accepted actuarial methodologies
In July 2013, the Company amended the plan to
using the projected benefit obligation (“PBO”) for
eliminate the life insurance benefits effective January 1,
pension plans and the accumulated postretirement
2014 for current eligible employees and effective
benefit obligation (“APBO”) for other postretirement
January 1, 2016 for eligible retirees who retired after
plans. Pension costs and other postretirement
1989. Subject to a court order, the Company paid life
obligations are determined using a December 31
insurance premiums for certain retiree plaintiffs until
measurement date. The benefit obligations represent
their lawsuit seeking to keep their life insurance
the actuarial present value of all benefits attributed to
benefits intact was resolved. In September 2020, the
employee service rendered as of the measurement
court entered summary judgment in favor of the
date. The PBO is measured using the pension benefit
Company and dismissed the action, releasing the
formulas and assumptions. A plan’s funded status is
Company from the order requiring the continued
calculated as the difference between the benefit
payment of premiums for certain retirees. In December
obligation and the fair value of plan assets. The
2021, the Court of Appeals affirmed summary
Company’s funding policy for the pension plans is to
judgment in favor of the Company. In October 2022,
make contributions at a level in accordance with
the U.S. Supreme Court denied the plaintiffs' petition
regulations under the Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”)
for appeal. On December 13, 2022, the trial court
and generally accepted actuarial principles. The
denied the plaintiffs' motions to vacate the summary
Company’s other postretirement benefit plans are not
judgment decision and seek further discovery. On
funded.
December 15, 2023, the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed the trial court’s denial of plaintiffs’ motion to
vacate. This decision is subject to any appeals.
Change in projected benefit obligation, plan assets and funded status
As of December 31,
Pension Postretirement
benefits benefits
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2023 2022
Change in projected benefit obligation
Benefit obligation, beginning of year $ 4,511 $ 6,500 $ 203 $ 284
Service cost 132 101 1 1
Interest cost 239 219 10 10
Participant contributions — — 16 16
Remeasurement of projected benefit obligation (gains) losses 125 (1,382) (4) (62)
Benefits paid (379) (894) (42) (42)
Translation adjustment and other (44) (33) 1 (4)
Benefit obligation, end of year $ 4,584 $ 4,511 $ 185 $ 203
Change in plan assets
Fair value of plan assets, beginning of year $ 4,430 $ 6,525
Actual return on plan assets 418 (1,189)
Employer contribution 14 24
Benefits paid (379) (894)
Translation adjustment and other (43) (36)
Fair value of plan assets, end of year $ 4,440 $ 4,430
Funded status (1) $ (144) $ (81) $ (185) $ (203)
Amounts recognized in AOCI
Unamortized pension and other postretirement prior service credit $ — $ — $ (18) $ (39)
(1) The funded status is recorded within other assets or other liabilities and accrued expenses on the Consolidated Statements of
Financial Position.
283 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Changes in items not yet recognized as a component of net cost for pension and other postretirement plans
Pension Postretirement
($ in millions) benefits benefits
Items not yet recognized as a component of net cost – December 31, 2022 $ — $ (39)
Prior service credit amortized to net cost — 21
Translation adjustment and other — —
Items not yet recognized as a component of net cost – December 31, 2023 $ — $ (18)
The prior service credit is recognized as a exclusion of an assumption as to future compensation
component of net cost for pension and other levels.
postretirement plans amortized over the average
The PBO, ABO and fair value of plan assets for the
remaining service period of active employees expected
Company’s pension plans with an ABO in excess of
to receive benefits.
plan assets were $4.27 billion, $4.18 billion and $4.09
The accumulated benefit obligation (“ABO”) for all billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2023 and $84
defined benefit pension plans was $4.48 billion and million, $83 million and zero, respectively, as of
$4.42 billion as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, December 31, 2022. Included in the accrued benefit
respectively. The ABO is the actuarial present value of cost of the pension benefits are certain unfunded non-
all benefits attributed by the pension benefit formula qualified plans with accrued benefit costs of $78 million
to employee service rendered at the measurement and $84 million for 2023 and 2022, respectively.
date. However, it differs from the PBO due to the
Components of net cost (benefit) for pension and other postretirement plans
For the years ended December 31,
Total pension and
Pension benefits Postretirement benefits postretirement benefits
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021
Service cost $ 132 $ 101 $ 103 $ 1 $ 1 $ 1 $ 133 $ 102 $ 104
Interest cost 239 219 191 10 10 8 249 229 199
Expected return on plan assets (306) (371) (445) — — — (306) (371) (445)
Amortization of prior service credit — (27) (50) (21) (25) (25) (21) (52) (75)
Costs and expenses 65 (78) (201) (10) (14) (16) 55 (92) (217)
Remeasurement of projected benefit
obligation 125 (1,382) (309) (4) (62) (16) 121 (1,444) (325)
Remeasurement of plan assets (112) 1,560 (319) — — — (112) 1,560 (319)
Remeasurement (gains) losses 13 178 (628) (4) (62) (16) 9 116 (644)
Total net (benefit) cost $ 78 $ 100 $ (829) $ (14) $ (76) $ (32) $ 64 $ 24 $ (861)
The service cost component is the actuarial Pension and other postretirement service cost,
present value of the benefits attributed by the plans’ interest cost, expected return on plan assets,
benefit formula to services rendered by the employees amortization of prior service credit and curtailment
during the period. gains and losses are reported in property and casualty
insurance claims and claims expense, operating costs
Interest cost is the increase in the PBO in the
and expenses, net investment income and (if
period due to the passage of time at the discount rate.
applicable) restructuring and related charges on the
Interest cost fluctuates as the discount rate Consolidated Statements of Operations.
changes and is also impacted by the related change in
Remeasurement gains and losses relate to
the size of the PBO.
changes in discount rates, the differences between
The expected return on plan assets is determined actual return on plan assets and the expected long-
as the product of the expected long-term rate of return term rate of return on plan assets, and differences
on plan assets and the fair value of plan assets. between actual plan experience and actuarial
assumptions.
Weighted average assumptions used to determine net pension cost and net postretirement benefit cost
For the years ended December 31,
Pension benefits Postretirement benefits
2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021
Discount rate 5.65 % 4.27 % 2.84 % 5.66 % 4.24 % 2.75 %
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 7.35 7.06 7.06 n/a n/a n/a
Cash balance interest credit rate 4.05 2.74 2.04 n/a n/a n/a
284 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations
As of December 31,
Pension benefits Postretirement benefits
2023 2022 2023 2022
Discount rate 5.35 % 5.64 % 5.28 % 5.58 %
Cash balance interest credit rate 4.03 3.97 n/a n/a
The weighted average health care cost trend rate consideration, among other factors, including
used in measuring the accumulated postretirement anticipated demographic changes or liquidity
benefit cost is 6.8% for 2024, gradually declining to requirements that may affect the funding status such
4.5% in 2035 and remaining at that level thereafter. as the potential impact of lump sum settlements as
well as existing or expected market conditions. In
Pension plan assets In general, the Company’s
general, the allocation has a lower overall investment
pension plan assets are managed in accordance with
risk when a plan is in a stronger funded status position
investment policies approved by pension investment
since there is less economic incentive to take risk to
committees. The purpose of the policies is to ensure
increase the expected returns on the plan assets. The
the plans’ long-term ability to meet benefit obligations
pension plans’ asset exposure within each asset
by prudently investing plan assets and Company
category is tracked against widely accepted
contributions, while taking into consideration
established benchmarks for each asset class with limits
regulatory and legal requirements and current market
on variation from the benchmark established in the
conditions. The investment policies are reviewed
investment policy. Pension plan assets are regularly
periodically and specify target plan asset allocation by
monitored for compliance with these limits and other
asset category. In addition, the policies specify various
risk limits specified in the investment policies.
asset allocation and other risk limits. The target asset
allocation takes the plans’ funding status into
Weighted average target asset allocation and actual percentage of plan assets by asset category
As of December 31, 2023
Target asset allocation (1) Actual percentage of plan assets
Pension plan’s asset category 2023 2023 2022
Equity securities 17 - 36% 26 % 27 %
Fixed income securities 38 - 54 48 49
Limited partnership interests 1 - 29 23 21
Short-term investments and other NA 3 3
Total without securities lending (2) 100 % 100 %
(1) The target asset allocation considers risk-based exposure while the actual percentage of plan assets utilizes a financial reporting
view excluding exposure provided through derivatives.
(2) Securities lending collateral reinvestment of $180 million and $297 million is excluded from the table above in 2023 and 2022,
respectively.
The target asset allocation for an asset category asset allocation. The asset allocation mix is reviewed
may be achieved either through direct investment on a periodic basis and rebalanced to bring the
holdings, through replication using derivative allocation within the target ranges.
instruments (e.g., futures or swaps) or net of hedges
Outside the target asset allocation, the pension
using derivative instruments to reduce exposure to an
plans participate in a securities lending program to
asset category. The net notional amount of derivatives
enhance returns. As of both December 31, 2023 and
used for replication and non-hedging strategies is
2022, fixed income securities are lent out and cash
limited to 115% of total plan assets. Market
collateral is invested in short-term investments.
performance of the different asset categories may,
from time to time, cause deviation from the target
285 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Fair values of pension plan assets as of December 31, 2023
Quoted prices in Significant other Significant
active markets observable unobservable
for identical inputs inputs Balance as of
($ in millions) assets (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) December 31, 2023
Equity securities $ 132 $ 28 $ — $ 160
Fixed income securities:
Government bonds (1) 323 1,007 — 1,330
Corporate bonds (2) — 794 — 794
Short-term investments 154 144 — 298
Free-standing derivatives:
Assets — — — —
Liabilities (1) (8) — (9)
Other assets 1 — — 1
Total plan assets at fair value $ 609 $ 1,965 $ — 2,574
% of total plan assets at fair value 23.7 % 76.3 % — % 100.0 %
Investments measured using the net
asset value practical expedient 2,019
Securities lending obligation (3) (179)
Derivatives counterparty and cash
collateral netting 8
Other net plan assets (4) 18
Total reported plan assets $ 4,440
Fair values of pension plan assets as of December 31, 2022
Quoted prices in Significant other Significant
active markets observable unobservable
for identical inputs inputs Balance as of
($ in millions) assets (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) December 31, 2022
Equity securities $ 120 $ 25 $ — $ 145
Fixed income securities:
Government bonds (1) 496 896 — 1,392
Corporate bonds (2) — 757 — 757
Short-term investments 163 279 — 442
Free-standing derivatives:
Assets — 1 — 1
Liabilities (1) (5) — (6)
Other assets 1 — — 1
Total plan assets at fair value $ 779 $ 1,953 $ — $ 2,732
% of total plan assets at fair value 28.5 % 71.5 % — % 100.0 %
Investments measured using the net
asset value practical expedient $ 1,975
Securities lending obligation (3) (296)
Derivatives counterparty and cash
collateral netting 2
Other net plan assets (4) 17
Total reported plan assets $ 4,430
(1) Includes U.S. government and agencies and foreign government bonds.
(2) Includes ABS securities.
(3) The securities lending obligation represents the plan’s obligation to return securities lending collateral received under a
securities lending program. The terms of the program allow both the plan and the counterparty the right and ability to
redeem/return the securities loaned on short notice. Due to its relatively short-term nature, the outstanding balance of the
obligation approximates fair value.
(4)Other net plan assets represent cash and cash equivalents, interest and dividends receivable and net receivables related to
settlements of investment transactions, such as purchases and sales.
The fair values of pension plan assets are estimated using the same methodologies and inputs as those used to
determine the fair values for the respective asset category of the Company. These methodologies and inputs are
disclosed in Note 6.
286 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Rollforward of Level 3 plan assets during December 31, 2023
Actual return on plan assets:
Relating to Relating to Purchases,
Balance as of assets sold assets still sales and Net transfers Balance as of
December 31, during the held at the settlements, in (out) of December 31,
($ in millions) 2022 period reporting date net Level 3 2023
Equity securities $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ —
Total Level 3 plan assets $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ —
Rollforward of Level 3 plan assets during December 31, 2022
Actual return on plan assets:
Relating to Relating to Purchases,
Balance as of assets sold assets still sales and Net transfers Balance as of
December 31, during the held at the settlements, in (out) of December 31,
($ in millions) 2021 period reporting date net Level 3 2022
Equity securities $ 2 $ — $ — $ — $ (2) $ —
Total Level 3 plan assets $ 2 $ — $ — $ — $ (2) $ —
Rollforward of Level 3 plan assets during December 31, 2021
Actual return on plan assets:
Relating to Relating to Purchases,
Balance as of assets sold assets still sales and Net transfers Balance as of
December 31, during the held at the settlements, in (out) of December 31,
($ in millions) 2020 period reporting date net Level 3 2021
Equity securities $ — $ — $ — $ 2 $ — $ 2
Fixed income securities:
Corporate $ 2 $ — $ — $ (2) $ — $ —
Total Level 3 plan assets $ 2 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 2
The expected long-term rate of return on plan investment consulting firm that performs asset
assets reflects the average rate of earnings expected allocation and actuarial services for corporate pension
on plan assets. The Company’s assumption for the plan sponsors. The above sources support the
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is Company’s weighted average long-term rate of return
evaluated annually giving consideration to appropriate on plan assets assumption of 7.35% used for 2023 and
data including, but not limited to, the plan asset an estimate of 7.34% that will be used for 2024. As of
allocation, forward-looking expected returns for the the 2023 measurement date, the arithmetic average of
period over which benefits will be paid, historical the annual actual return on plan assets for the most
returns on plan assets and other relevant market data. recent 10 and 5 years was 8.3% and 10.0%, respectively.
Given the long-term forward-looking nature of this
Cash flows There was no required cash
assumption, the actual returns in any one year do not
contribution necessary to satisfy the minimum funding
immediately result in a change to the expected long-
requirement under the IRC for the tax qualified pension
term rate of return on plan assets. In consideration of
plan for the year ended December 31, 2023.
the targeted plan asset allocation, the Company
evaluated expected returns using sources including The Company currently plans to contribute $19
historical average asset class returns from million to its unfunded non-qualified plans and zero to
independent nationally recognized providers of this both its primary and other qualified funded pension
type of data blended together using the asset plans in 2024.
allocation policy weights for the Company’s pension
The Company contributed $26 million and $26
plans; asset class return forecasts developed by
million to the postretirement benefit plans in 2023 and
employees with relevant expertise in such forecasts
2022, respectively. Contributions by participants were
and who are independent from those charged with
$16 million and $16 million in 2023 and 2022,
managing the pension plan assets; and expected
respectively.
portfolio returns from a proprietary simulation
methodology of a widely recognized external
287 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Estimated future benefit payments expected to be paid in the next 10 years
As of December 31, 2023
Pension Postretirement
($ in millions) benefits benefits
2024 $ 495 $ 23
2025 487 23
2026 488 21
2027 477 20
2028 472 18
2029-2033 1,740 60
Total benefit payments $ 4,159 $ 165
Allstate 401(k) Savings Plan The Company’s contribution to the Allstate Plan
was $124 million, $131 million and $110 million in 2023,
Employees of the Company, with the exception of
2022 and 2021, respectively.
those employed by the Company’s international,
SquareTrade and InfoArmor subsidiaries, are eligible to Allstate’s Canadian, SquareTrade and InfoArmor
become members of the Allstate 401(k) Savings Plan subsidiaries sponsor defined contribution plans for
(“Allstate Plan”). The Company’s contributions are their eligible employees. Expense for subsidiary
based on the Company’s matching obligation. The sponsored defined contribution plans was $14 million,
Company is responsible for funding its contribution to $9 million and $9 million in 2023, 2022 and 2021,
the Allstate Plan. respectively.
Note 19 Equity Incentive Plans
The Company currently has equity incentive plans Nonvested awards as of December 31, 2023
under which it grants nonqualified stock options,
restricted stock units and performance stock awards Weighted
to certain employees and directors of the Company. Unrecognized average
($ in millions) compensation vesting period
Equity awards
Nonqualified stock
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021 options $ 17 1.68
Compensation expense $ 73 $ 93 $ 120 Restricted stock units 48 1.74
Income tax benefits 12 16 18 Performance stock
awards 17 1.69
Cash received from
exercise of options 103 130 151 Total $ 82
Tax benefit realized on
options exercised and Options are granted to employees with exercise
release of stock prices equal to the closing share price of the
restrictions 31 44 37
Company’s common stock on the applicable grant
date. Options granted to employees vest ratably over a
The Company records compensation expense three-year period. Vesting is subject to continued
related to awards under these plans over the shorter of
service, except for employees who are retirement
the period in which the requisite service is rendered or
eligible and in certain other limited circumstances.
retirement eligibility is attained. Compensation
Options may be exercised once vested and will expire
expense for performance stock awards with no market
no later than ten years after the date of grant.
condition is based on the probable number of awards
expected to vest using the performance level most Restricted stock units for directors vest
likely to be achieved at the end of the performance immediately and convert into shares of stock on the
period. Compensation expense for performance stock earlier of the day of the third anniversary of the grant
awards with a market condition is based on the date or the date the director’s service terminates,
number of awards expected to vest as estimated at unless a deferred period of restriction is elected.
the grant date and does not change if the market
Restricted stock units granted to directors prior to
condition is not met.
June 1, 2016 convert upon leaving the board. Restricted
stock units granted to employees prior to February 19,
2020 vest on the day prior to the third anniversary of
the grant date. Restricted stock units granted to
employees on or after February 19, 2020 vest ratably
over a three-year period. Restricted stock units
granted to employees subsequently convert into
shares of stock on the day of the respective
anniversary of the grant date. Vesting is subject to
continued service, except for employees who are
288 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
retirement eligible and in certain other limited for future issuance under these plans. The Company
circumstances. uses its treasury shares for these issuances.
Performance stock awards vest into shares of The fair value of each option grant is estimated on
stock based on achieving established company- the date of grant using a binomial lattice model. The
specific performance goals. Performance stock awards Company uses historical data to estimate option
granted prior to February 19, 2020 vest into shares of exercise and employee termination within the valuation
stock on the day prior to the third anniversary of the model. In addition, separate groups of employees that
grant date. Performance stock awards granted on or have similar historical exercise behavior are considered
after February 19, 2020 vest into shares of stock on the separately for valuation purposes. The expected term
third anniversary of the grant date. of options granted is derived from the output of the
binomial lattice model and represents the period of
The numbers of shares earned upon vesting of the
time that options granted are expected to be
performance stock awards is based on the attainment
outstanding. The expected volatility of the price of the
of performance goals for each of the performance
underlying shares is implied based on traded options
periods, subject to continued service, except for
and historical volatility of the Company’s common
employees who are retirement eligible and in certain
stock. The expected dividends were based on the
other limited circumstances.
current dividend yield of the Company’s stock as of the
Since 2001, a total of 110.8 million shares of date of the grant. The risk-free rate for periods within
common stock were authorized to be used for awards the contractual life of the option is based on the U.S.
under the plans, subject to adjustment in accordance Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.
with the plans’ terms. As of December 31, 2023, 12.3
million shares were reserved and remained available
Option grant assumptions
2023 2022 2021
Weighted average expected term 5.8 years 5.9 years 7.5 years
Expected volatility 20.0% - 31.6% 19.8% - 29.9% 16.5% - 28.8%
Weighted average volatility 24.9 % 23.2 % 23.0 %
Expected dividends 2.4% - 3.3% 2.5% - 3.0% 2.0% - 3.0%
Weighted average expected dividends 2.6 % 2.8 % 3.1 %
Risk-free rate 3.3% - 5.6% 0% - 4.8% 0% - 1.7%
Summary of option activity
For the year ended December 31, 2023
Weighted average
Aggregate intrinsic remaining
Number Weighted average value contractual term
(in 000s) exercise price (in 000s) (years)
Outstanding as of January 1, 2023 8,953 $ 95.72
Granted 910 136.63
Exercised (1,499) 80.27
Forfeited (170) 124.26
Expired (67) 117.79
Outstanding as of December 31, 2023 8,127 102.37 $ 305,666 5.2
Outstanding, net of expected forfeitures 8,091 102.24 305,369 5.2
Outstanding, exercisable (“vested”) 6,146 95.05 276,112 4.3
The weighted average grant date fair value of options granted was $31.45, $21.16 and $15.61 during 2023, 2022 and
2021, respectively. The intrinsic value, which is the difference between the fair value and the exercise price, of options
exercised was $79 million, $107 million and $112 million during 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
Changes in restricted stock units
For the year ended December 31, 2023
Weighted average
Number grant date fair
(in 000s) value
Nonvested as of January 1, 2023 929 $ 110.75
Granted 417 132.65
Vested (371) 117.28
Forfeited (73) 124.84
Nonvested as of December 31, 2023 902 117.05
The fair value of restricted stock units is based on the market value of the Company’s stock as of the date of the
289 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
grant. The market value in part reflects the payment of future dividends expected. The weighted average grant date
fair value of restricted stock units granted was $132.65, $123.98 and $108.99 during 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
The total fair value of restricted stock units vested was $49 million, $59 million and $35 million during 2023, 2022 and
2021, respectively.
Changes in performance stock awards
For the year ended December 31, 2023
Weighted average
Number grant date fair
(in 000s) value
Nonvested as of January 1, 2023 796 $ 116.36
Granted 240 136.62
Adjustment for performance achievement 54 123.72
Vested (309) 122.47
Forfeited (47) 120.53
Nonvested as of December 31, 2023 734 120.68
The change in performance stock awards primarily and expected term assumed to be equal to the
comprises awards vested and granted in 2023. remaining measurement period. The market value in
part reflects the payment of future dividends
The fair value of performance stock awards that do
expected.
not include a market condition is based on the market
value of the Company’s stock as of the date of the For the year ended December 31, 2023, the 2023
grant. performance stock awards with market-based
condition assumes a risk-free rate of 1.7%, volatility of
Starting with the February 2020 award, the fair
24.8%, average peer volatility of 29.9% and an expected
value of performance stock awards includes a
term of 2.9 years.
component with market-based condition measured on
the grant date using a Monte Carlo simulation model. The weighted average grant date fair value of
Market-based condition measures the Company’s total performance stock awards granted was $136.62,
shareholder return (“TSR”) relative to the TSR of peer $123.08 and $107.14 during 2023, 2022 and 2021,
companies, expressed in terms of the Company’s TSR respectively. The total fair value of performance stock
percentile rank among the peer companies, over a awards vested was $41 million, $87 million and $70
three-calendar-year performance period. The Monte million during 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
Carlo simulation model uses a risk-neutral framework
The Company recognizes all tax effects related to
to model future stock price movements based upon
share-based payments at settlement or expiration
the risk-free rate of return at the time of grant,
through the income statement.
volatilities of the Company and the peer companies,
Note 20 Supplemental Cash Flow Information
Non-cash investing activities include $64 million, in the measurement of lease liabilities of $130 million,
$185 million and $51 million related to mergers and $163 million and $181 million for the year ended
exchanges completed with equity and fixed income December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Non-
securities, bank loans, real estate and limited cash operating activities include $30 million,
partnerships in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Non- $26 million and $98 million related to right-of-use
cash investing activities include $15 million related to assets obtained in exchange for lease obligations for
right-of-use real estate obtained in exchange for lease the year ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021,
obligations and $123 million related to debt assumed respectively.
by purchaser on sale of real estate for the year ended
Liabilities for collateral received in conjunction with
December 31, 2023.
the Company’s securities lending program and OTC
Non-cash financing activities include $39 million, and cleared derivatives are reported in other liabilities
$65 million and $53 million related to the issuance of and accrued expenses or other investments. The
Allstate common shares for vested equity awards in accompanying cash flows are included in cash flows
2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. from operating activities in the Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows along with the activities
Cash flows used in operating activities in the
resulting from management of the proceeds, as
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows include cash
follows:
paid for operating leases related to amounts included
290 2023 Annual ReportNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021
Net change in proceeds managed
Net change in fixed income securities $ 259 $ (521) $ —
Net change in short-term investments (139) (49) (539)
Operating cash flow provided (used) 120 (570) (539)
Net change in cash — 3 9
Net change in proceeds managed $ 120 $ (567) $ (530)
Cash flows from operating activities
Net change in liabilities
Liabilities for collateral, beginning of year $ (2,011) $ (1,444) $ (914)
Liabilities for collateral, end of year (1,891) (2,011) (1,444)
Operating cash flow (used) provided $ (120) $ 567 $ 530
Note 21 Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
Components of other comprehensive income (loss) on a pre-tax and after-tax basis
For the years ended December 31,
2023 2022 2021
After- After- After-
($ in millions) Pre-tax Tax tax Pre-tax Tax tax Pre-tax Tax tax
Unrealized net holding gains and losses
arising during the period, net of related
offsets (1) $ 1,547 $ (322) $ 1,225 $ (4,472) $ 949 $ (3,523) $ (2,840) $ 601 $ (2,239)
Less: reclassification adjustment of
realized capital gains and losses (539) 113 (426) (848) 178 (670) 436 (92) 344
Unrealized net capital gains and
losses 2,086 (435) 1,651 (3,624) 771 (2,853) (3,276) 693 (2,583)
Unrealized foreign currency translation
adjustments 85 (18) 67 (190) 40 (150) (10) 2 (8)
Unamortized pension and other
postretirement prior service credit (2) (20) 4 (16) (54) 11 (43) (75) 16 (59)
Discount rate for reserve for future
policy benefits (13) 3 (10) 289 (61) 228 62 (13) 49
Other comprehensive income (loss) $ 2,138 $ (446) $ 1,692 $ (3,579) $ 761 $ (2,818) $ (3,299) $ 698 $ (2,601)
(1) 2021 includes $2.4 billion of losses related to held for sale investments in connection with the sale of the life and annuity
business.
(2) Represents prior service credits reclassified out of other comprehensive income and amortized into operating costs and
expenses.
291 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 22 Quarterly Results (unaudited)
First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter
($ in millions, except per share data) 2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 2022
Revenues $ 13,786 $ 12,336 $ 13,979 $ 12,219 $ 14,497 $ 13,208 $ 14,832 $ 13,648
Net income (loss) applicable to
common shareholders (346) 634 (1,389) (1,040) (41) (685) 1,460 (303)
Earnings per common share applicable
to common shareholders - Basic (1.31) 2.28 (5.29) (3.80) (0.16) (2.55) 5.57 (1.15)
Earnings per common share applicable
to common shareholders - Diluted (1) (1.31) 2.25 (5.29) (3.80) (0.16) (2.55) 5.52 (1.15)
(1) For periods presented with a net loss from continuing operations applicable to common shareholders, weighted average shares
for basic earnings per share is also used for calculating diluted earnings per share because all dilutive potential common shares
are anti-dilutive and are therefore excluded from the calculation.
Consolidated net income applicable to common shareholders was $1.46 billion in the fourth quarter of 2023
compared to net loss of $303 million in the fourth quarter of 2022, primarily due to improved underwriting results.
Effective January 1, 2023, the Company adopted the FASB guidance revising the accounting for certain long-
duration insurance contracts using the modified retrospective approach to the transition date of January 1, 2021. See
Note 2 for discussion of the guidance and further information regarding the impact of the adoption on the consolidated
financial statements.
Impact of adoption for reserve for future policy benefits
First Second Third Fourth
Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter
($ in millions, except per share data) 2022 2022 2022 2022
Revenues $ (1) $ (1) $ — $ 1
Net income (loss) applicable to common shareholders 4 2 9 7
Earnings per common share applicable to common
shareholders - Basic 0.01 0.01 0.03 0.02
Earnings per common share applicable to common
shareholders - Diluted 0.01 0.01 0.03 0.02
292 2023 Annual ReportReport of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of The Allstate Corporation
Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Financial Position of The Allstate Corporation and
subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, the related Consolidated Statements of Operations,
Comprehensive Income (Loss), Shareholders’ Equity, and Cash Flows, for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2023, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "financial statements"). We also have audited
the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2023, based on criteria established in
Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO).
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of the Company as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2023, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2023, based on criteria established in Internal
Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO.
Change in Accounting Principle
As discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, the Company has changed its method of accounting for the
measurement and disclosure of long-duration insurance contracts using the modified retrospective approach to the
transition date of January 1, 2021 due to the adoption of Accounting Standards Update 2018-12, Targeted
Improvements to the Accounting for Long-Duration Contracts.
Basis for Opinions
The Company’s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and an opinion on the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the
Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities
and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material
misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures to respond to
those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. Our audit of internal
control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness
of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
or procedures may deteriorate.
293 www.allstate.comCritical Audit Matter
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the financial
statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relates to
accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging,
subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of a critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion
on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below,
providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.
Reserve for Property and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense - Refer to Notes 2 and 9 to the Financial
Statements
Critical Audit Matter Description
The Company establishes reserves for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense on reported and
unreported claims of insured losses. Using established industry and actuarial best practices as well as the Company’s
historical claims experience, the reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense is estimated
based on (i) claims reported, (ii) claims incurred but not reported, and (iii) projections of claim payments to be made in
the future.
Given the subjectivity of estimating claims incurred but not reported and projections of claim payments to be
made in the future, particularly those with payout requirements over a longer period of time, the related audit effort in
evaluating the reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense required a high degree of auditor
judgment and an increased extent of effort, including involvement of our actuarial specialists.
How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit
Our principal audit procedures related to the reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims
expense included the following:
• We tested the effectiveness of controls related to the reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and
claims expense, including those over the Company’s estimates and projections.
• We evaluated the methods and assumptions used by the Company to estimate the reserve for property and
casualty insurance claims and claims expense by:
– Testing the underlying data that served as the basis for the actuarial analysis, including historical
claims, to test that the inputs to the actuarial estimate were complete and accurate.
– Performing a retrospective review, including comparing prior year estimates of expected incurred
losses to actual experience during the current year to identify potential bias in the determination of
the reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense.
• With the assistance of our actuarial specialists, we developed independent estimates for the reserve for
property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense, particularly those with payout requirements over
a longer period of time, utilizing loss data and industry claim development factors, and compared our
estimates to management’s estimates and assessed the consistency of management’s approach.
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chicago, Illinois
February 21, 2024
We have served as the Company's auditor since 1992.
294 2023 Annual ReportInvestor Information
Allstate 401(k) Savings Plan Media Inquiries
Corporate Headquarters/ Home Office
For information about the Allstate 401(k) Allstate Media Relations
The Allstate Corporation
Savings Plan, call the Allstate Benefits 3100 Sanders Road
3100 Sanders Road
Center at (888) 255-7772 Northbrook, IL 60062
Northbrook, IL 60062
(847) 402-5600
(847) 402-5000 Investor Relations
www.allstate.com Security analysts, portfolio managers and Form 10-K, Other Reports
representatives of financial institutions Shareholders may receive without charge a
Annual Meeting
seeking information about the company copy of The Allstate Corporation Form 10-K
Shareholders of record are invited
should contact: annual report (filed with the U.S. Securities
to attend the annual meeting of The
and Exchange Commission) and other
Allstate Corporation on Tuesday, Investor Relations public financial information for the year
May 14, 2024, 11:00 a.m. Central time. The Allstate Corporation ended December 31, 2023, by contacting
The company will be hosting the 3100 Sanders Road, invrel@allstate.com.
meeting live via the Internet. To attend Northbrook, IL 60062
the virtual meeting please visit www. (800) 416-8803 The Allstate Corporation’s Annual Report
virtualshareholdermeeting.com/ALL2024. invrel@allstate.com is available online at:
https://www.allstateinvestors.com/
Holders of common stock of record at Communications to the financials/sec-filings
the close of business on March 18, 2024 Board of Directors
are entitled to vote during the meeting. Shareholders or other interested parties Stock Exchange Listing
A notice of meeting, proxy statement who wish to communicate to the Board The Allstate Corporation common stock
and proxy card and/or voting instructions of Directors may do so by mail or email is listed on the New York Stock Exchange
were provided to shareholders with this as follows. Please let us know if you are under the trading symbol “ALL.” Common
annual report. a shareholder. stock is also listed on the Chicago Stock
Exchange. As of January 31, 2024, there
Shareholder Services/Transfer Agent BY EMAIL: were 56,831 holders of record of The
For information or assistance regarding directors@allstate.com Allstate Corporation’s common stock.
individual stock records, dividend
reinvestment, dividend checks, 1099DIV BY MAIL: Independent Registered Public
and 1099B tax forms, direct deposit of The Allstate Corporation Accounting Firm
dividend payments, or stock certificates, Nominating, Governance & Deloitte & Touche LLP 111 South Wacker
contact EQ Shareowner Services, in any Social Responsibility Committee Drive Chicago, IL 60606-4301
of the following ways: c/o General Counsel
3100 Sanders Road Online Information
BY TELEPHONE: Northbrook, IL 60062 You can access financial and other
(800) 355-5191 within the U.S. or information about Allstate on our
(651) 450-4064 outside the U.S. Code of Global Business Conduct website, www.allstateinvestors.com,
Allstate’s Global Code of Business Conduct including executive speeches, investor
BY MAIL: is available on the Corporate Governance conference calls and quarterly investor
EQ Shareowner Services section of www.allstateinvestors.com. information. The information contained in
P.O. Box 64854
any website or report referenced in this
St. Paul, MN 55164-0854 Corporate Responsibility
proxy statement is not incorporated by
Information on Allstate’s social
reference in, and does not form a part of,
BY CERTIFIED/OVERNIGHT MAIL: responsibility programs is available at
this proxy statement.
EQ Shareowner Services allstatesustainability.com.
1110 Centre Pointe Curve, Suite 101
Mendota Heights, MN 55120-4100
ON THE INTERNET—
account information:
shareowneronline.com
Printed on recycled paper. Soy ink used throughout.The Allstate Corporation
Notice of 2024 Annual Meeting,
Proxy Statement and
2023 Annual Report
The Allstate Corporation
3100 Sanders Road
Northbrook, IL 60062–6127