Allstate exists to serve
customers, create
opportunity for our team,
generate attractive returns
for investors, improve
communities, and make a
difference in the world.
Notice of 2023 Annual Meeting
and Proxy Statement
2022 Annual Reportour behaviors
Collaborate early and often to
develop and implement
comprehensive solutions and
share learnings.
Challenge Ideas to leverage
collective expertise, evaluate
multiple alternatives and create
the best path forward.
Provide Clarity for expected
outcomes, decision authority
and accountability.
Provide Feedback that is
candid, actionable,
independent of
hierarchy and safe.Our Shared Purpose
As the good hands...
We empower customers with protection to help them achieve their
hopes and dreams.
We provide affordable, simple and connected protection solutions.
We create opportunity for our team, economic value for our
shareholders and improve communities.
our operating
our behaviors
standards
Collaborate early and often to
Focus on Customers by develop and implement
anticipating and exceeding service comprehensive solutions and
expectations at low costs. share learnings.
Be the Best at protecting Challenge Ideas to leverage
customers, developing talent collective expertise, evaluate
and running our businesses. multiple alternatives and create
the best path forward.
Be Bold with original ideas
using speed and conviction Provide Clarity for expected
to beat the competition. outcomes, decision authority
and accountability.
Earn Attractive Returns
by providing customer value, Provide Feedback that is
proactively accepting risk our values candid, actionable,
and using analytics. independent of
Integrity is non-negotiable. hierarchy and safe.
Inclusive Diversity & Equity values and leverages unique
identities with equitable opportunity and rewards.
Collective Success is achieved through empathy and prioritizing
enterprise outcomes ahead of individuals.2
Allstate
®
Shareholder Letter
Adapting to the Present While Building for the Future
Allstate rapidly responded to a difficult operating environment in 2022 to mitigate negative financial results while
staying on course to build a low-cost digital protection company. Financial results were below expectations with
a net loss of $1.4 billion that resulted from auto insurance underwriting losses and a decline in the value of public
equity investments. A comprehensive plan to increase auto insurance margins is well underway and margins are
expected to increase. Despite these challenges, the strategies to increase market share in personal property-liability
and expand protection offerings are on track. Allstate is creating a better future for customers, shareholders, team
members and communities.
2022 Operating Performance A Purpose-Driven Company Powered
The decline in financial performance did not reflect the agility and by Purpose-Driven People
precision of operating results.
People are the key to success. The pandemic has changed the
• The underwriting loss was generated from auto insurance as ways and places that people work. Allstate is adapting to these
costs to repair and replace cars and settle third-party liability changes by approaching employees as customers who are
claims increased by over 15% from the prior year. Increases in the team members.
estimates for auto losses from pre-2022 claims also negatively
impacted 2022 results. The comprehensive program to improve • Employees are “purchasing” a career opportunity that includes
auto insurance margins includes Allstate brand rate increases of professional growth, compensation, flexibility, inclusivity, and an
16.9%, expense reductions, tighter underwriting standards and opportunity to make a difference. They “pay” for this with their
adapting claims practices to a high inflation environment. expertise, engagement, and commitment.
• Homeowners insurance continued its industry leading • Flexibility to work remotely or hybrid is an increasingly important
performance generating $681 million of underwriting income, part of the employee value proposition. Commuting is overrated
while growing policies in force by 1.4%. and no one wants to drive to an office for a Zoom call. As a result,
Allstate has embraced the concept of flexibility with over 80% of
• Investment results were strong in a difficult year. A proactive
U.S. employees choosing remote work. This significantly reduces
approach to investing reduced exposure to higher interest rates,
real estate costs but does impact collaboration and belonging.
which avoided $2 billion of declines in the portfolio’s market
value. While the overall portfolio had a negative 4% return for • New ways of collaborating and creating a sense of belonging
the year, this was better than the Bloomberg Intermediate are being developed given the extent of remote work. Allstate’s
Bond and the S&P 500 equity indices which declined by 9% and culture is a foundation for success so this legacy must be
18%, respectively. protected while adapting to a new work environment.
• The Protection Services businesses served more customers with • Inclusive diversity and equity also drive belonging and
broader protection and had strong operating results. Protection commitment and improve business outcomes. Allstate’s
Plans’ written premiums increased by 5% to $1.9 billion and had leadership position was advanced with improvements in
$150 million of Adjusted Net Income (ANI). Health and Benefits representation, business practices and community engagement.
generated $222 million of ANI. • These results were delivered by a team that successfully dealt
• Shareholders received cash of $3.4 billion of which $926 million with business challenges, innovated, and managed leadership
was dividends, which were increased by 5% per share. Relative transitions. The Board of Directors provides invaluable wisdom
ownership per share increased by 6.1% in 2022 reflecting and perspective to help an outstanding team. Don Civgin retired
share repurchases. as Vice Chair in May after 13 years. Rhonda Ferguson’s passing
in May stunned all of us and the team rallied to fulfill the Chief
Legal Officer’s responsibilities. Glenn Shapiro also retired, staying
until September to support these transitions.
Once again, Allstate was included
in DiversityInc’s Top 50 Companies
for Diversity.www.allstateproxy.com 3
AllstateShareholder Letter
• Expand and Enhance Distribution – Allstate brand products
are available through Allstate agents, call centers and online
Allstate was named the 21st best
with pricing that reflects the cost and value of each channel.
managed company out of over National General continues to expand its relationship with
independent agents.
900 companies by the Wall Street
• Lower Customer Acquisition Costs – Strides were made in
Journal/Drucker Institute and ranked improving marketing effectiveness, which will be critical when
marketing increases as auto insurance profitability improves.
4th overall for innovation.
• Build New Technology Ecosystems – A new product
management system was deployed with the new auto insurance
product, increasing agility and enabling the eventual retirement
Climate Strategy of legacy technology systems.
Increased severe weather, the transition to a lower carbon economy • Enhance Organizational Capabilities - Digital, analytical
and higher societal expectations of business require us to incorporate and technology capabilities were expanded to accelerate
climate change into strategy and operating plans. Climate change transformation. Focus on improving decision clarity
affects all four stakeholders covered by Our Shared Purpose. enhanced execution.
• Customers need affordable protection from severe weather The Protection Services businesses also focused on creating the
and greater resiliency and disaster response capacity. future. Protection Plans expanded into the furniture category and
Electrification of the auto fleet also needs to be reflected in auto new international markets, building on its success in consumer
insurance coverages. electronics with U.S. retailers. Health and Benefits is implementing
a new operating platform and expanding from worksite offerings
• Shareholders require a sustainable business that adapts to
to direct sales to individuals. Identity Protection upgraded its
external changes while delivering growth and attractive returns.
technology platform and expanded protection offerings.
New investment opportunities will be realized with the transition
to a lower carbon economy.
• Allstaters value the opportunity to help customers, seize new Corporate Stewardship
business opportunities and improve society since these lead to
Allstate is one of the largest “main street” protection companies in
professional growth and stable employment.
the U.S., serving over 189 million policyholders. We have grown into
• Communities want businesses to utilize their capabilities to this responsibility since the first policy insured a 1930 Studebaker
create a better future and they reward them by buying their 92 years ago by focusing on customers and broadly defining our
products. role in society. Our Shared Purpose and the Societal Engagement
Framework provide clarity and structure to assess trade-offs
Allstate has successfully adapted to increased severe weather change
between conflicting objectives. Allstate’s legacy is built on the
for over a quarter of a century. As a result, the homeowners business
fortitude to lead when needed, while limiting our role to the
provides coverage to more than 7 million homes, and paid out over
requirements of Our Shared Purpose.
$11.4 billion in catastrophe losses while averaging $644 million of
underwriting income annually over the last five years. Allstate also The Allstate Foundation is also embedded in our history with
helped create public risk sharing pools in Florida, Texas, and California 70 years of improving communities. Last year thousands of non-
to provide customers with affordable protection for uninsurable risks. profits were supported to disrupt the cycle of relationship abuse,
empower youth through service and advance economic mobility for
Expertise and relationships are being expanded to find attractive
people of color.
investment opportunities from the transition to a lower carbon
economy. In 2022, a commitment was made to achieve net zero Your support makes it possible for Allstate to build on this legacy,
emissions for Scope 1 and 2 measures by 2030. Scope 3 measures be forward-looking and live Our Shared Purpose. Together we are
that cover the investment portfolio currently lack consistency and making a difference in the world!
therefore these targets will not be established until 2025.
Creating the Future
Allstate seeks to create the future, not just react to trends.
Transformative Growth in the property-liability business will
improve the customer value proposition with affordable, simple,
and connected protection. Becoming the lowest cost auto and
home insurer will increase market share but requires significant
operational changes, which are well underway.
Transformative Growth has five components and Allstate made
significant progress in 2022.
• Improve Customer Value Proposition – Affordability was
improved by lowering operating expenses. A new, digital auto
Tom Wilson
insurance product was launched in two states and is expected
to become available to about one-third of the U.S. through direct Chair, President
distribution in 2023.
and CEO4
Letter from
®
Independent Directors
April 10, 2023
Fellow Shareholders,
2022 was a year of adaptations and persistence for Allstate. The external environment presented
challenges with high inflation and declining investment values that negatively impacted earnings
and economic value. Allstate has a long history of successfully navigating challenging environments
and last year was no different with rapid adaptation of the annual plan while maintaining long-term
value creation. This past year the Board was focused on short- and long-term priorities, risk and
return, human capital and environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) issues. As we approach
the 2023 annual meeting, this letter highlights the Board’s independent oversight of Allstate’s
Shared Purpose.
Operating Performance The Board assessed risks presented by Transformative
Growth, compensation programs and financial controls
Maintaining Allstate's operational excellence and and also focused on the impacts of inflation, reinsurance
performance is necessary for long-term growth and value utilization, geopolitical risk, policyholder retention and
creation. In 2022, operating results deteriorated with net climate change. Additionally, the Board oversaw Allstate's
loss of $1.4 billion and adjusted net loss* of $262 million, security and data privacy programs. We supplemented our
reflecting an underwriting loss in auto insurance and a oversight with external independent resources in several
valuation decline of equity investments. Consequently, important areas – compensation, cybersecurity, Board
increased Board time was spent overseeing management's composition, and pay equity. We enhanced oversight of the
actions to improve profitability. Management is successfully independent auditors by reviewing their internal control
implementing a comprehensive profit improvement plan process to ensure independence and public company
with Allstate brand auto insurance rate increases of 16.9%. oversight and completed a request for information from
Strong operating performance in most other businesses, alternative auditors.
coupled with the capital freed up from the divestiture of the
The Board also ensures we have the capabilities, experience
life and annuity businesses, supported the return of $3.4
and processes to provide appropriate oversight and
billion to shareholders in 2022 through dividends and share
guidance with respect to Allstate’s strategy, business
repurchases.
results, diversity, culture and societal engagement. Board
and individual director performance is evaluated throughout
Driving Long-Term Growth
the year. Monica Turner joined the Board, bringing extensive
Management and the Board also focused on long-term strategic expertise with consumer-focused brands and
growth while adapting to dramatic cost increases and outstanding operational leadership capabilities, which will
a volatile market. Transformative Growth, a multi-year enhance the value added by our Board.
initiative to increase personal property-liability market share
and expand protection offered to customers, remains at
the forefront of Allstate's strategy. The Board continued its
The Board continued its practice of
oversight of this important strategic initiative, which made
substantial progress in 2022. A new automobile insurance utilizing external independent resources
product using state-of-the-art technology was introduced to supplement its oversight in several
in two states with an improved customer experience and
key areas - compensation, pay equity,
reduced costs.
cybersecurity and Board composition.
Providing Effective Risk Oversight
Board oversight of risk and return practices are also
critical to long-term value creation. We regularly review
the company’s risks related to strategic direction, financial
markets, environmental sustainability, human capital,
culture and investment risks.
* For additional information, please see Appendix A – Definitions of
Non-GAAP Measures.www.allstateproxy.com 5
Letter from Independent Directors
Sustainable Performance and ESG Prioritizing Human Capital
Allstate's purpose is to empower customers with protection, Allstate’s employees and agents are essential to driving
provide opportunities to team members, create attractive future success. Several important human capital initiatives
returns for shareholders, and improve communities. were reviewed with the Board and advanced during the year:
Achieving all of these is critical to sustainable success but
• Inclusive Diversity and Equity (IDE) – Progress
requires focus and clarity to balance between objectives.
was made in all three components of the multi-year
Allstate's focus on climate, data privacy and equity are based
IDE strategy: Representation, Business Practices
on a Societal Engagement Framework, which is used to
and Community Engagement. Racial and gender
evaluate, prepare and communicate Allstate’s participation
representation increased across the company. Diverse
in societal issues. This framework evaluates issues on five
supplier relationships were expanded. Allstate continues
criteria: importance to our ability to serve customers, level
to be an active participant in OneTen, a cross-industry
of Allstate’s expertise, ability to effect change, impact on
effort to create one million family sustaining jobs in
stakeholders, and risk adjusted returns.
America. We also completed our annual independent
Allstate has actively addressed the impacts of climate external pay equity analysis and publicly disclosed our
change on its customers for over 25 years by advocating EEO-1 report.
for strong catastrophe disaster preparation and response,
• Succession Planning – Allstate's breadth and depth of
effective building standards and adequate risk sharing
talent is critical to achieving Our Shared Purpose. The
mechanisms. This year we established greenhouse gas
Board reviews senior leadership and CEO succession
emission reduction targets for Allstate’s operations with the
from both an enterprise and individual perspective in
goal to achieve net zero emissions for direct, indirect and
multiple sessions throughout the year.
value-chain greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. Investment
• Compensation – Compensation plans are tightly linked
capabilities have also been expanded to improve risk
to a broad set of performance measures. Incentive
adjusted returns by participating in the transition to a low-
compensation plans include performance on IDE
carbon economy. The Task Force on Climate-related Financial
and Transformative Growth implementation. Senior
Disclosures (TCFD) and Sustainability Accounting Standards
leadership’s annual incentives were substantially
Board (SASB) reports highlight this progress.
reduced given the net loss in 2022.
Your view is important to us, and we value your continued
Allstate’s shareholder engagement investment and support. We believe Allstate is positioned
for success in the coming year and remain confident in the
program is integral to the Board’s
company's ability to accelerate sustainable growth and
oversight and decision-making process
profitability and focus on ensuring Allstate fulfills its obligations
and informs important practices and to you, the customers and the broader community. Thank
you for trusting us to oversee the long-term sustainability
policies in our strategy and compensation
of Allstate.
and ESG programs. In 2022, Allstate
engaged with shareholders holding
approximately 36% of outstanding shares.
Donald E. Brown Siddharth N. Judith A. Sprieser
(Bobby) Mehta
Kermit R. Crawford Jacques P. Perold Perry M. Traquina
Richard T. Hume Andrea Redmond Monica Turner
Margaret M. Keane Gregg M. Sherrill6
Notice of 2023 Date and Time
Tuesday, May 23, 2023,
at 11:00 a.m. Central time.
Annual Meeting of
Admittance to the webcast
begins at 10:30 a.m.
Shareholders Virtual (Online Only)
www.virtualshareholder
meeting.com/ALL2023
Record Date
Items of Business Board
Holders of Allstate common
Recommendation
stock at the close of business
on March 24, 2023. Each share
1
of common stock is entitled
Election of 12 directors FOR each nominee to one vote for each director
See pages 18-25 candidate and one vote for
each of the other proposals.
2
Participation
Say-on-pay: FOR
Shareholders who wish to
advisory vote on the See pages 61-86
participate in the meeting
compensation of the
should review pages 114-117.
named executives
Date of Mailing
3
On or about April 10, 2023, these
Say-on-frequency: EVERY YEAR proxy materials and annual
advisory vote on the See page 107 report are being mailed or made
frequency of future advisory available to shareholders and to
votes on the compensation participants in the Allstate 401(k)
Savings Plan.
of the named executives
4 How to Vote in Advance
Ratification of FOR Your vote is important. Please vote as
appointment of Deloitte See pages 108-111 soon as possible by one of the methods
shown below. Make sure to have your
& Touche LLP as
proxy card, voting instruction form, or
Allstate’s independent
notice of Internet availability in hand
registered public
and follow the instructions. You may
accountant for 2023
also vote during the annual meeting by
visiting www.virtualshareholdermeeting.
com/ALL2023, entering your control
In addition, any other business properly presented may be acted upon at
number, and following the instructions.
the meeting.
By Telephone
By Order of the Board,
In the U.S. or Canada, you can
vote your shares toll-free by
calling 1-800-690-6903.
Christine DeBiase By Mail
You can vote by mail by
Secretary
marking, dating, and signing
April 10, 2023
your proxy card or voting
instruction form and returning
Important Notice Regarding the Availability of Proxy Materials it in the postage-paid envelope.
for the Shareholder Meeting to Be Held on May 23, 2023
By Internet
The Notice of 2023 Annual Meeting, Proxy Statement, and 2022
You can vote your shares online
Annual Report and the means to vote by Internet are available at
at proxyvote.com.
proxyvote.com.
By Tablet or Smartphone
You can vote your shares with
your tablet or smartphone by
scanning the QR code.7
Participating in our
How can I vote at the meeting? You may
vote during the annual meeting by following
Annual Meeting the instructions available on the meeting
website during the meeting. Whether or not
you participate in the annual meeting, we
encourage you to vote and submit your proxy
in advance of the meeting by one of the
methods described in these proxy materials.
The 2023 annual meeting will be held in How can I ask a question at the meeting?
This year’s shareholders’ question and answer
a virtual meeting format since it provides
session will include questions submitted in
greater access and participation opportunities advance of, and questions submitted live
during, the annual meeting. You may submit a
for shareholders.
question in advance of the meeting beginning
at 8:30 a.m. Central time on May 19, 2023, and
until 11:59 p.m. Central time on May 22, 2023, at
Virtual Meetings Who can participate in the Virtual www.proxyvote.com after logging in with your
Increase Participation Annual Meeting? If you plan to 16-digit control number. Once past the login
participate in the annual meeting, you screen, click on “Question for Management,”
SHAREHOLDER must be a holder of Allstate shares as typing your question and clicking “Submit.”
ATTENDANCE
of the record date of March 24, 2023, Alternatively, questions may be submitted
In-Person Virtual or hold a legal proxy for the meeting during the annual meeting through www.
Meeting Meeting provided by your bank, broker, or virtualshareholdermeeting.com/ALL2023, by
87 nominee. To be admitted to the typing your question into the “Ask a Question”
74 annual meeting webcast at www. field and clicking “Submit.” We will try to answer
70
virtualshareholdermeeting.com/ as many questions as time permits. We reserve
ALL2023, you must enter the 16-digit the right to edit profanity or other inappropriate
34 control number found on your proxy language and to exclude questions regarding
card, voting instruction form or notice topics that are not pertinent to meeting matters
of Internet availability. You may log or company business. If we receive substantially
2019 2020 2021 2022
into the meeting platform beginning similar questions, we may group such questions
at 10:30 a.m. Central time on May 23, together and provide a single response to avoid
SHAREHOLDER
2023. The meeting will begin promptly repetition. Any questions pertinent to meeting
QUESTIONS
ANSWERED DURING at 11 a.m. Central time on May 23, 2023. matters that cannot be answered during the
THE MEETING The virtual meeting platform is fully meeting due to time constraints will be posted
supported across browsers (Firefox, online at www.allstateinvestors.com.
In-Person Virtual
Meeting Meeting Chrome, Microsoft Edge, and Safari)
Who do I contact about technical
and devices (desktops, laptops, tablets
13 and cell phones) running the most difficulties? If you encounter any difficulties
accessing the meeting during the meeting time,
10 updated version of applicable software.
please call the technical support number at
Participants should ensure that they
7 (844) 986-0822. The technical support number
have a strong WiFi connection wherever
34 will also be posted on the meeting website.
they intend to participate in the meeting.
1 Participants should also give themselves
Will a replay of the meeting be available?
2019 2020 2021 2022 plenty of time to log in and ensure that
Following completion of the meeting, a webcast
they can hear streaming audio prior to
replay will be posted online to our Investor
the start of the meeting.
Relations website at www.allstateinvestors.com
for one year.8
Table of Contents
2 Letter from Chair, President and CEO
New and
4 Letter from Independent Directors
6 Notice of 2023 Annual Meeting of Shareholders Frequently
7 Participating in Our Annual Meeting Requested
9 Proxy Summary Information
18 Corporate Governance
% Proposal 1. Election of 12 Directors 52 Sustainability at Allstate
45 Board Leadership
19 The Director Nominees at a Glance 33 Board Oversight 10 Strategic Priorities
20 Director Nominees 41 Board Accountability
11 Financial Highlights
26 Board and Nominee Independence 43 Stakeholder Input and
110 Auditor Fees
Determinations Responsiveness
27 Effective Board Governance at Allstate 45 Board Structure 30 Board Evaluation
28 Board Composition 50 Director Compensation Process
30 Board Effectiveness 26 Board Independence
33 Board Oversight of Key
52 Sustainability at Allstate
Risks
52 Our ESG Strategy 59 Responsible Investing – Aligning
38 Succession Planning
54 Our Key ESG Priorities with ESG Priorities
104 CEO Pay Ratio
60 Governance of ESG
86 Clawback Policy
61 Executive Compensation 40 Risk Areas Overseen by
% Proposal 2. Say-on-Pay: Advisory Vote on the Board Committees
47 Director Attendance
Compensation of the Named Executives
50 Director Compensation
62 Compensation Discussion and Analysis 96 Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation 19 Director Skills and
86 Compensation Committee Report at Fiscal Year-end 2022 Experience Matrix
87 Summary Compensation Table 97 Potential Payments as a Result 20 Director Nominee
89 Grants of Plan-Based Awards of Termination or Change
at Fiscal Year-end 2022 in Control (“CIC”) Biographies
91 Outstanding Equity Awards 99 Estimate of Potential Payments 85 Equity Ownership
at Fiscal Year-end 2022 Upon Termination Requirements
92 Option Exercises and 101 Performance Measures for 2022 43 Societal Engagement
Stock Vested During 2022 104 CEO Pay Ratio
Framework
93 Retirement Benefits 105 Pay Versus Performance Table
29 Board Nomination
107 Say-on-Frequency Process
69 Peer Group
% Proposal 3. Advisory Vote on the Frequency of Future Advisory
105 Pay Versus Performance
Votes on the Compensation of the Named Executives
41 Shareholder
Engagement
108 Audit Committee Matters
% Proposal 4. Ratification of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the
Independent Registered Public Accountant for 2023
Explore Allstate
111 Audit Committee Report
112 Stock Ownership Information Get a quote in the blink
112 Security Ownership of Directors 113 Security Ownership of Certain of an eye
and Executive Officers Beneficial Owners https://www.allstate.com
114 Other Information
114 Proxy and Voting Information 121 Appendix B – Categorical
118 Appendix A – Definitions of Standards of Independence
Non-GAAP Measures 122 Appendix C – Executive Officers
123 Helpful Links and Resources
123 About Allstate 123 Sustainability
123 Governance9
Proxy Summary
About Allstate
Allstate is one of the nation’s largest insurers with 189.1 million policies in force, protecting
cars, homes, motorcycles, health, disability, lives, personal devices and identities. Its
products are sold through Allstate agents, independent agents, call centers, online,
major retailers and voluntary benefits brokers. The company harnesses the talent of
approximately 54,500 employees, 10,100 exclusive Allstate agents and agent support staff,
and 51,900 independent agents.
What We Do
Allstate empowers customers with protection to help them
achieve their hopes and dreams. We do this by leveraging Allstate was ranked #21 on the Drucker
innovative, industry-leading technology to provide Institute list of the nation’s 250 best
customers with affordable, simple and connected solutions. managed companies.
We offer a wide range of protection products and services
for customers automobiles, homes, personal property,
health, income and identities.
Allstate’s Strategy to Increase
Shareholder Value
Increase
Allstate’s strategy has two components: increase personal
Personal
property-liability market share and expand protection
Property-
offerings by leveraging the Allstate brand, customer base
Liability
and capabilities. We are accomplishing this through the use
Market
of differentiated products, analytical expertise, telematics
Share
and an integrated digital enterprise that leverages data
and technology to execute processes with a focus on
greater effectiveness and efficiency.
Leveraging
Allstate brand,
customer base
and capabilities
Expand
Protection
Solutions111000 2023 Proxy Statement
PPrrooxxyy SSuummmmaarryy
Our Strategic Priorities
Executing comprehensive plan to improve Generating profitable growth in Protection Services
profitability Revenue from Allstate Protection Services was 5% higher
Auto insurance margins need to be returned to pre- than the prior year, generating approximately 5% of total
pandemic levels, amongst the best in the industry. Allstate revenues in 2022. Growth strategies for Health
Allstate brand auto insurance rate increases of 16.9% were and Benefits, Protection Plans and Identity Protection also
implemented in 2022 and meaningful rate increases will advanced.
likely continue through 2023. Allstate also implemented
stricter auto new business underwriting requirements. Reducing investment portfolio exposure to higher
We achieved half of our targeted ~6.0 point reduction in interest rates and economic recession
adjusted expense ratio* from 2018 to 2024 and reduced
Higher investment yields benefitted Net Investment
advertising spend. Claims practices were modified to
Income. The portfolio was positioned defensively to higher
manage loss costs and innovation and analytics were
rates driven by inflation and recession sensitive assets.
leveraged to drive accuracy and operational efficiency.
This mitigated the negative impact of falling valuations in
fixed income and equity markets.
Transformative Growth
Our Transformative Growth strategy is a multi-year initiative to increase personal property-liability market share by building
a low-cost digital insurer with broad distribution of affordable, simple and connected protection. This strategy will be driven
by a new business model, capabilities and culture that continually transform to better serve customers. We are making
significant progress across all five components of this strategy:
01 Improve Customer Value 04 Modernize Technology Ecosystems
• Improving the competitive prices of • Deploying a new technology ecosystem to deliver
products through lower costs, increased affordable, simple, and connected experiences and
price sophistication and telematics products at a lower cost, which will also lead to the
• Increasing engagement with the Allstate retirement of legacy systems
Mobile app and new business penetration
05 Drive Organizational Transformation
of telematics products, including pay-per-
mile insurance • Enhancing and expanding organizational capabilities by
• Providing additional consumer-focused increasing digital expertise, process redesign, decision
protection solutions clarity, and employee empowerment and diversity
02 Expand Customer Access
• Transforming the Allstate agent sales Link to
system to enable more growth at a lower Executive
cost by incentivizing agents to focus on Digital Expense Compensation
sales, while expanding our distribution technology
capacity through new agent models ecosystems reductions Component
• Increasing direct channel distribution Items in Force
effectiveness and efficiency Growth relative
• Growing National General by broadening to competitors
Increase
Personal
the Allstate brand capabilities and sophistication Property- Low prices/ is a measure for
data to expand product offerings using and investment Liability attractive the Performance
independent agency relationships in customer Flywheel of returns Stock Awards to
acquisition Growth
Increase Customer Acquisition measure progress on
03 Allstate’s strategies
Sophistication
• Improving the effectiveness of Simple and
Enhanced and
customer acquisition by expanding lead expanded connected
protection
management, building data capabilities distribution
solutions
and utilizing household insightswwwwww..aallllssttaatteepprrooxxyy..ccoomm 111111
PPrrooxxyy SSuummmmaarryy
Allstate’s 2022 Operating Proactively Manage Investments Link to
Priorities Net investment income of $2.4 billion in 2022 Executive
was $890 million below prior year as higher
Compensation
market-based investment income was more
Better Serve Customers than offset by lower performance-based results. Component
Enterprise Net Promoter Score, which measures
Total return on the $61.8 billion (as of 12/31/22)
how likely customers are to recommend Allstate’s executive
investment portfolio was (4.0)% in 2022 and
Allstate, finished below the prior year, reflecting compensation
compares favorably to full year 2022 performance
substantial price increases necessary to offset of the S&P 500 of (18.1)% and the Bloomberg program is
higher loss costs.
Intermediate Bond return of (9.4)%. Proactive designed to ensure
portfolio actions to reduce inflation and economic that the interests
Grow Customer Base
risk by shortening fixed income duration
of our executives
Consolidated policies in force reached 189.1 million, mitigated portfolio losses by approximately $2
a 1.0% decrease from prior year. Property-Liability billion this year. are aligned with
policies in force increased by 0.7% compared to those of our
the prior year, as continued growth at National Build Long-Term Growth Platforms shareholders. We
General was offset by the Allstate brand. Protection
Allstate made substantial progress in establish a strong
Services policies in force declined 1.4%, primarily
advancing Transformative Growth initiatives nexus between
due to expiring low average premium policies from
in 2022, including continued cost reductions,
a major retail account that ended in 2019. performance
deploying a new property-liability technology
measures
platform and a new Affordable, Simple,
Achieve Target Economic Returns On Connected auto insurance offering in two and strategic
Capital
states. National General is meeting or objectives, which
Return on average Allstate common exceeding acquisition performance targets are also linked to
shareholders’ equity was (7.3)% in 2022. The with the objective of building a strong
operating priorities
Property-Liability combined ratio of 106.6 for competitive position in independent agent
the full year increased compared to the prior distribution. Protection Services has increased designed to
year primarily driven by higher auto losses. revenues, particularly Allstate Protection Plans. create long-term
A comprehensive profitability plan is being Arity continued to expand its data acquisition shareholder value.
executed. platform and launched Arity IQ, a product
to improve new business profitability for
auto insurers.
Financial Highlights
ADJUSTED NET INCOME* NET INCOME APPLICABLE TO TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN
COMMON SHAREHOLDERS VS. PEER(1) RETURNS
2022 ($262M)
2022 ($1.42B) 1 Yr 18.3% Allstate
2021 $4.03B
2021 $1.49B 15.1% P&C Peers(2)
2020 $4.51B 13.5% Peers(2)
2020 $5.46B
9.7% Life Peers(2)
ADJUSTED NET INCOME RETURN BOOK VALUE PER $XX.XX
ON ALLSTATE COMMON EQUITY* COMMON SHARE
3 Yr 29.9%
2022 (1.3%) 2022 $58.07 55.9%
2021 16.9% 2021 $81.52 49.3%
40.4%
2020 19.2% 2020 $91.50
ADJUSTED NET INCOME POLICIES IN FORCE 5 Yr 45.1%
PER COMMON SHARE* 86.4%
2022 50.3M 138.7M
80.6%
2022 ($0.97)
2021 49.9M 141.1M 69.8%
2021 $13.48
2020 44.9M 129.0M
2020 $14.29
Excluding Allstate Protection Plans
Allstate Protection Plans
* For definitions of these terms, please see the definitions of non-GAAP measures on pages 118-120 of our 2023 Proxy Statement.
(1) The peers are listed on page 69.
(2) Market Cap Weighted AverageProxy Summary
111222 2023 Proxy Statement
PPrrooxxyy SSuummmmaarryy
Sustainability Highlights
Primary focus on three ESG issues:
>
See pages 52-59 for further information.
See page 60 for information about the Board’s role in Climate, Data Privacy,
>
overseeing ESG.
and Inclusive Diversity and Equity
Environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) matters are
fundamentally connected to Allstate’s business strategies.
Ensuring products and services are accessible, competitively Climate change impacts customers
priced, and mindful of environmental and social impacts is and shareholders. Customer homes are
essential. ESG is managed through the lens of People, Planet and subject to increasingly severe weather
Prosperity and ESG issues are prioritized on their alignment to Our catastrophes. In 2022, Allstate incurred
Shared Purpose, the Societal Engagement Framework, and long- 124 natural-catastrophe events, totaling
term enterprise value creation. $3.1 billion. Catastrophic losses create
volatility in shareholder returns.
Pillars of ESG Value Creation
People Allstate is a purpose-driven company
powered by purpose-driven people
Data privacy protects customers and
Allstate’s employees and agents are essential to
is a growth opportunity. Protecting
achieving Our Shared Purpose. As Transformative
data and sensitive information is
Growth is accelerated, the focus is on how we
important to maintain trust in the
recruit, retain, develop and engage employees
Allstate brand. Allstate provides identity
while also focusing on the creation of an inclusive,
diverse and equitable culture. Allstate strives to protection products to over 3 million
motivate employees and harness their diverse individuals, empowering them with more
perspectives through leading employment control over their personal data.
practices. Employability is enhanced with training,
mentoring and investing in professional growth.
Planet Allstate is developing products and
Inclusive diversity and equity (IDE)
services that address climate change
creates a culture and team to drive
and aligning our investment practices to
success. An inclusive culture that
support our sustainability goals
supports the attraction, retention
Ensuring Allstate's products are accessible, and development of diverse talent is
competitively priced and mindful of necessary to meet diverse customer
environmental and social impacts is an essential
needs. IDE is integrated into business via
component of the Transformative Growth
policies, processes, and decision-making.
strategy. Another way to provide security and
IDE performance is reviewed by the
protection for customers is through our activities
Board twice a year and is a component
as an institutional investor, recognizing that
of executive compensation.
climate-related issues can influence investment
performance. Allstate’s investment analysis and
decision-making processes consider these issues
along with our values.
Our Sustainability website includes
Prosperity Allstate is protecting customers' further details on Allstate’s initiatives.
information and empowering them with
https://www.
more control over their personal data
allstatesustainability.com
Because of the products and services provided,
customers entrust Allstate with their data and
have an expectation of privacy and security
around that data. This creates both business
opportunities and constraints as Allstate works to
safeguard consumer data while using that data to
better serve customers.wwwwww..aallllssttaatteepprrooxxyy..ccoomm 111333
PPrrooxxyy SSuummmmaarryy
Primary focus on three ESG issues:
Climate 2022 Accomplishments
Climate, Data Privacy,
Climate change is one of the most • Publicly committed to be net zero for direct, indirect and value-
and Inclusive Diversity and Equity chain GHG emissions by 2030
critical challenges threatening
customers, businesses and communities. Today, • Cut energy use beyond our original targets and significantly
a natural catastrophe that exceeds $1 billion reduced our GHG emissions
Climate change impacts customers
occurred every 18 days, a 400% increase from • Committed $469 million to climate-related opportunities
and shareholders. Customer homes are
1980. This creates additional risks for customers between 2021 and 2022, exceeding our goal of $375 million
subject to increasingly severe weather
catastrophes. In 2022, Allstate incurred and shareholders, but also offers opportunities • Achieved green or healthy building certification for 100% of
to leverage Allstate’s capabilities and support newly acquired buildings
124 natural-catastrophe events, totaling
$3.1 billion. Catastrophic losses create proactive public policy initiatives. • Discouraged excess waste and encouraged recycling through
volatility in shareholder returns. centralized waste collection
Data Privacy 2022 Accomplishments
• Implemented a digital ethics framework to provide actionable
Data privacy protects customers and Business practices are designed
guidance to identify and address ethical concerns in the use of
is a growth opportunity. Protecting to protect data and keep sensitive
innovative technologies, like artificial intelligence
data and sensitive information is information safe. We empower people with
• Introduced an innovative personal information anonymization
important to maintain trust in the control over their personal data through
framework that respects privacy while still allowing the
Allstate brand. Allstate provides identity transparency, offering solutions and leading
company to use data insights to drive new service and
protection products to over 3 million others to do the same through four key avenues:
product developments
individuals, empowering them with more policy and legislation, governance, products and
• Continued to grow Allstate Identity Protection (AIP), with over 3
control over their personal data. services, and partnerships.
million individuals protected as of year-end 2022
Inclusive diversity and equity (IDE) Inclusive Diversity 2022 Accomplishments
creates a culture and team to drive and Equity • Continued to drive skills-based hiring without degree
success. An inclusive culture that requirements on job postings for Black talent. In 2022, in
IDE is one of three core values in
partnership with OneTen, Allstate hired over 340 Black
supports the attraction, retention Our Shared Purpose. Allstate’s IDE strategy is
individuals into family sustaining jobs without a four-year degree,
and development of diverse talent is focused on the four pillars of Business Practices,
exceeding our annual goal by over 159%.
necessary to meet diverse customer Culture, People and Community to leverage
• Implemented a monthly IDE Talent Scorecard to drive leadership
needs. IDE is integrated into business via diverse talent, perspectives and experiences
accountability for developing a diverse team
policies, processes, and decision-making. and foster an inclusive and equitable workplace.
IDE performance is reviewed by the Allstate tracks workforce composition data over • In 2022, Allstate launched the IDE A.C.T. (Accountability,
time to determine if it is making appropriate Clarity, Transparency) Framework, integrating IDE strategy,
Board twice a year and is a component
progress in advancing gender and racial/ethnic goals, and collaboration across Allstate. This model ensures
of executive compensation.
representation in the employee population joint accountability, drives lower cost execution, and reduces
and discloses its progress. As part of Allstate's complexity by clarifying roles and creating an IDE ecosystem of
commitment to fair and equitable compensation sharing and business area partnership with IDE leadership.
practices, a pay equity analysis is completed on • Named among DiversityInc’s Top 50 Companies for Diversity for
an annual basis. Allstate continuously strives the 19th consecutive year
to build awareness and drive action to be a
differentiated leader in IDE.Proxy Summary
111444 2023 Proxy Statement
PPrrooxxyy SSuummmmaarryy
1 Election of 12 Directors
% The Board recommends a vote FOR each nominee
Donald E. Brown Kermit R. Crawford Richard T. Hume Margaret M. Keane Siddharth N. (Bobby) Mehta
Jacques P. Perold Andrea Redmond Gregg M. Sherrill Judith A. Sprieser Perry M. Traquina
Monica Turner Thomas J. Wilson
See pages 18-51 for further information.
• All candidates are highly successful executives with relevant skills and expertise
• Average independent director tenure of 7.6 years, with director candidates independent of management
• Diverse slate of directors with broad leadership experience; 58% of the nominees bring gender or ethnic diversity,
including three of the four committee chairs
• Industry-leading shareholder engagement program and highly-rated corporate governance practices
Donald E. Brown, 51
Andrea Redmond, 67
Executive Vice President
and Chief Innovation Former Managing Director of
Officer of NiSource, Inc. Russell Reynolds Associates Inc.
Tenure: 3 Tenure: 13
Other Public Boards: 0 Other Public Boards: 0
Independence
Committees: A N Committees: N C E
92%
Kermit R. Crawford, 63 Gregg M. Sherrill, 70
11 out of 12 directors
Former President and Chief Former Chair and CEO of
Operating Officer of Tenneco Inc.
Rite Aid Corporation Gender/Ethnic Diversity Tenure: 5
Tenure: 10 58% 75% Other Public Boards: 1
Other Public Boards: 2
Directors Committee
Committees: E N
Committees: A E R chairs
Judith A. Sprieser, 69
Richard T. Hume, 63 Former CEO of Transora
CEO of TD SYNNEX Balanced Tenure Inc. and senior executive at
Sara Lee Corporation
Tenure: 3 3 6 3
Tenure: 23
Other Public Boards: 1 <5 years 5-10 years >10 years
Other Public Boards: 2
Committees: C R
Committees: C R
Margaret M. Keane, 63
Perry M. Traquina, 66
Former Chair, CEO and
President of Synchrony Former Chairman, CEO, and
Financial Managing Partner of Wellington
Committee Chair Management Company LLP
Tenure: 5
Tenure: 6
Other Public Boards: 0
A Audit Committee Other Public Boards: 2
Committees: C N
Committees: C E R
Compensation and
Siddharth N. (Bobby) C Human Capital
Monica Turner, 57
Committee
Mehta, 64 President, North
Former President and CEO of E Executive America at Procter &
TransUnion Committee Gamble
Tenure: 9 Nominating, Tenure: <1 year
Other Public Boards: 2 Governance Other Public Boards: 0
N and Social
Committees: (1)
Committees: R A E Responsibility
Committee
Jacques P. Perold, 64
Risk and Return Thomas J. Wilson, 65
Former President of Fidelity R Committee Chair, President, and CEO of
Management &
The Allstate Corporation
Research Company
Tenure: 16
Tenure: 7
Other Public Boards: 0
Other Public Boards: 1
Committees: E
Committees: A R
(1) Consistent with past practice, Ms. Turner’s committee assignments will be established during her first year of service.wwwwww..aallllssttaatteepprrooxxyy..ccoomm 111555
PPrrooxxyy SSuummmmaarryy
Nominees’ Skills and Experiences Advance Our Strategy
Allstate has a well-rounded and diverse Board that is independent with the institutional knowledge of longer-tenured
directors and fresh perspectives brought by newer directors. Directors have a variety of skills and experiences developed
across a broad range of industries and other public company boards. This enables effective oversight of the business and
incorporates best practices from other companies.
Key Skill or Qualification Link to Strategy % of Directors
Core Competencies
Strategic and Operational A practical understanding of developing, implementing and assessing business 100%
Oversight strategies, key initiatives and annual business plans.
Shareholder Advocacy Brings perspective in understanding shareholder expectations and driving change based 100%
on engagement feedback.
Corporate Governance Supports Allstate's goals of strong Board and management accountability, transparency, 100%
responsiveness and protection of shareholder interests.
Strong leadership qualities encourage robust and thoughtful dialogue and decision-
Leadership making and provides succession planning opportunities for Board and committee 100%
leadership roles.
Additional Capabilities
Financial Services Assists with understanding the business and strategy of our company. 67%
Risk Management Aids in the Board’s role in overseeing the risks facing our company and provides effective 100%
oversight of our enterprise risk and return management (“ERRM”) program.
Accounting and Finance Financial reporting, audit knowledge, and experience in capital markets are elements of 92%
Allstate’s success.
Technology and/or Relevant to how Allstate approaches improving its internal operations and the customer 75%
Cybersecurity experience and protects customer information.
Global Perspective Provides valuable insights on how Allstate should continue to grow and manage its 67%
businesses outside the United States.
Complex, Highly Our business is regulated in all 50 states and is subject to government regulations by the 83%
Regulated Business U.S. federal government, Canada and other countries.
Sustainability Sustainability drives long-term value creation, and as a public company and good 100%
corporate citizen, shareholders expect effective oversight and transparency.
Succession Planning and Ensures that Allstate has sufficient talent, robust development and retention practices 100%
Human Capital Management and supporting our commitment to further inclusive diversity and equity.
Innovation and Helps Allstate grow its brand, enhance its reputation, generate disruptive innovation, and 100%
Customer Focus extend or create new business models.
Government, Public Policy Assists in identifying and understanding compliance issues and the effect of 75%
and Regulatory Affairs governmental actions on our business.
See page 29 for a presentation of our nominating process, including an ongoing review of board skills and experiences to
align with Allstate’s strategy.
Relevant Skills and Experience
58% 83%
What’s New
board corporate
governance leadership Ms. Turner was welcomed to the
Board this year. She brings strong
experience experience
consumer product, business
transformation experience, and
7 currently serve on other 10 serve or served as a operating expertise.
public company boards CEO or President111666 2023 Proxy Statement
PPrrooxxyy SSuummmmaarryy
2 Say-on-Pay: Advisory Vote on the Compensation
of the Named Executives
% The Board recommends a vote FOR this proposal.
See pages 61-86 for further information.
• Independent oversight by compensation and • Compensation programs are working effectively. Annual
human capital committee with the assistance of an incentive compensation funding for our named executives
independent consultant in 2022 was 57.5% of target, as formulaic result was reduced
• Executive compensation targeted at 50th percentile of by 50% due to negative Net Income. Annual performance
peers and aligned with short- and long-term business goals was above maximum performance on Total Premiums and
and strategy Net Investment Income, below threshold performance on
Performance Net Income, and above target performance on
the Strategic Initiatives Scorecard.
2022 Compensation Program Components
Allstate’s executive compensation program reflects our pay-for-performance culture and supports shareholder alignment
while also incentivizing our executives:
Cash Long-Term Equity-Based Incentive
Annual Cash Performance
COMPONENT Salary Incentive Stock Awards Stock Options
LINK TO Targeted at 50th Motivates and rewards Motivates and rewards Stock options comprise
SHAREHOLDER percentile of peers executives for performance executives for performance 40% of equity incentives
VALUE to support Allstate's on key strategic, operational on key long-term measures granted and further
goal of attracting and financial measures and aligns the interests of align the interests of
and retaining top during the year. executives with long-term executives with long-term
executive talent Targets established based shareholder value. shareholder value.
which ensures strong on company performance Performance stock awards
leadership over against four measures: Total ("PSAs") vest based on results
Allstate's businesses. Premiums, Performance for Average Performance
Net Income, Net Investment Net Income Return on
Income and the Strategic Equity ("ROE"), Relative Total
Initiatives Scorecard. Shareholder Return and
Items in Force Growth.
Fixed Performance-Based/At-Risk
Target Compensation Mix
CEO At-Risk Performance-Based Pay: 91%
9%
Base 26% 40% 25%
Salary Annual Cash Incentive Performance Stock Awards Stock Options
35% Total Premiums 50% Average Performance Net Income
Performance 35% Performance Net Income ROE
Metrics 10% Net Investment Income 30% Relative TSR
20% Strategic Initiatives Scorecard 20% Items in Force Growth
OTHER NEOs
17% 26% 34% 23%
Base Salary Annual Cash Incentive Performance Stock Awards Stock Options
At-Risk Performance-Based Pay: 83%wwwwww..aallllssttaatteepprrooxxyy..ccoomm 111777
PPrrooxxyy SSuummmmaarryy
3 Say-on-Frequency: Advisory Vote on the Frequency of
Future Advisory Votes on the Compensation of the Named
Executives
% The Board recommends that you vote to conduct future advisory votes
on executive compensation EVERY YEAR.
See page 107 for further information.
• Allstate's shareholders have expressed interest in annual say-on-pay proposals
• The Board values the opportunity to receive annual feedback to respond to changing market conditions
• It is market practice to conduct a say-on-pay vote on an annual basis
• The next say-on-frequency vote will be held at the 2029 annual meeting
4 Ratification of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Independent
Registered Public Accountant for 2023
% The Board recommends a vote FOR this proposal.
See pages 108-111 for further information.
• Independent firm with few ancillary services and reasonable fees
• Significant industry and financial reporting expertise
• The audit committee annually evaluates Deloitte & Touche LLP and determined that its retention
continues to be in the best interests of Allstate and its shareholders18
Corporate
Governance
1
Election of
12 Directors
What am I Overview
voting on? • All candidates are highly successful executives with relevant skills and expertise
• Average independent director tenure of 7.6 years, with director candidates
The Board recommends
independent of management
12 nominees for election to the
• Diverse slate of directors with broad leadership experience; 58% of the nominees
Allstate Board for one-year
bring gender or ethnic diversity, including three of the four committee chairs
terms beginning in May 2023
and until a successor is duly • Industry-leading shareholder engagement program and highly-rated corporate
elected and qualified or his or governance practices
her earlier resignation
or removal.
Voting recommendation
The Board recommends a vote
FOR each director nominee.
Each nominee was previously elected at Allstate’s annual meeting of shareholders on
May 24, 2022, for a one-year term, with the exception of Ms. Turner who joined the Board
in 2023. The Board expects all nominees named in this proxy statement to be available
for election. If any nominee is not available, then the proxies may vote for a substitute.
On the following pages, we list the reasons for nominating each individual.Corporate
Governance
The Director Nominees at a Glance
Name and Principal
Occupation
naciremA
nacirfA/kcalB
cificaP
rehtO/naisA
rednalsI
naisacuaC/etihW
redneG
egA
)sraey(
eruneT
seettimmoC
draoB
cilbuP
rehtO
fo
rebmuN
sdraoB
ynapmoC
Skills and Experiences
secivreS
laicnaniF
tnemeganaM
ksiR
dna
gnitnuoccA
ecnaniF
ro/dna
ygolonhceT ytirucesrebyC
evitcepsreP
labolG
ylhgiH
,xelpmoC
ssenisuB
detalugeR ytilibaniatsuS
gninnalP
noisseccuS
latipaC
namuH
dna
tnemeganaM
dna
noitavonnI
ecivreS
remotsuC ,tnemnrevoG
dna
yciloP
cilbuP
sriaffA
yrotalugeR
www.allstateproxy.com 19
Corporate Governance
Thomas J. Wilson
Chair, President, and CEO of M 65 16 E 0
The Allstate Corporation
Donald E. Brown
Executive Vice President and A
M 51 3 0
Chief Innovation Officer of N
NiSource, Inc.
Kermit R. Crawford A
Former President and Chief
M 63 10 E 2
Operating Officer of Rite Aid
Corporation R
Richard T. Hume C
CEO of TD SYNNEX M 63 3 1
R
Margaret M. Keane
Former Chair, CEO and C
F 63 5 0
President of Synchrony N
Financial
Siddharth N. (Bobby) R
Mehta
M 64 9 A 2
Former President and CEO of
TransUnion E
Jacques P. Perold
Former President of Fidelity A
M 64 7 1
Management & Research R
Company
Andrea Redmond N
Former Managing Director
F 67 13 C 0
of Russell Reynolds
Associates Inc. E
Gregg M. Sherrill E
Former Chair and CEO of M 70 5 1
N
Tenneco Inc.
Judith A. Sprieser
Former CEO of Transora Inc. C
F 69 23 2
and senior executive at R
Sara Lee Corporation
Perry M. Traquina
C
Former Chairman, CEO,
and Managing Partner of M 66 6 E 2
Wellington Management R
Company LLP
Monica Turner
President, North America at F 57 <1 0
Procter & Gamble
Committee A Audit C Compensation and Human E Executive N Nominating, Governance and R Risk and Return
Chair Committee Capital Committee Committee Social Responsibility Committee CommitteeCorporate Governance
20 2023 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Director Nominees
Donald E.
Key Experience and Qualifications
Brown
Risk Management: Overall responsibility Sustainability: Experience developing and
Independent
for identifying and evaluating financial risk leading transition to a less carbon-intensive
Age 51 exposures and determining steps to mitigate business model.
those risks. Succession Planning and Human Capital
Accounting and Finance: Significant Management: Responsibilities as senior leader
Director since 2020
financial and accounting experience leading at NiSource include oversight of employee
3 years of tenure the financial operations of one of the largest recruitment, development and retention, as well
utility companies in the country. as leadership of large teams.
Professional Experience
Technology and/or Cybersecurity: Innovation and Customer Focus: Experience
• Current Executive Vice President and Chief In-depth understanding of technological overseeing business focused on delivering safe,
Innovation Officer of NiSource, Inc., a highly advancements and operational reliable and efficient services to customers and
regulated natural gas and electric utilities transformation to enhance the customer communities.
company serving customers across multiple experience. Government, Public Policy and Regulatory
states. Complex, Highly Regulated Businesses: Affairs: Deep understanding of compliance
• Former EVP and CFO of NiSource, Inc. Regulatory expertise within the heavily and governmental requirements as a senior
regulated utilities industry. leader of one of the largest fully regulated utility
Other Public Board Service companies in the United States.
• None
Committee Assignments and Rationale
A Audit Committee N Nominating, Governance and
Social Responsibility Committee
• Multiple leadership positions with financial oversight responsibility,
including as former CFO at NiSource. • Management and leadership experience as senior leader of NiSource,
including oversight of employee talent and retention programs.
• Experience leading climate strategies for large gas and electric
company.
Kermit R.
Key Experience and Qualifications
Crawford
Risk Management: Deep understanding of Sustainability: Over 30 years of operational
Independent
consumer experiences and insights, as well experience with consumer and retail companies
Age 63 as extensive experience in business strategy that included driving sustainability initiatives.
and risk management. Succession Planning and Human Capital
Accounting and Finance: Responsible for Management: Responsibilities as senior leader
Director since 2013
all operational aspects of large drugstore at leading retail drugstore chain included
10 years of tenure chains throughout country, including financial leadership of large divisions and human capital
results. priorities and culture.
Professional Experience
Technology and/or Cybersecurity: Innovation and Customer Focus: Effectively
• Former President and Chief Operating Effectively led operational change, including oversaw transition of pharmacy experience from
Officer of Rite Aid Corporation, which through the use of technology. a model focused primarily on drug delivery to a
operates one of the leading retail drugstore Complex, Highly Regulated Businesses: pharmacist-patient centric model.
chains in the United States. Expertise assessing the strategies and Government, Public Policy and Regulatory
• Former Executive Vice President and performance of a geographically distributed Affairs: Understanding of legal and regulatory
President, Pharmacy, Health and Wellness and consumer-focused service business in a requirements relevant for large, public
for Walgreens Co., which operates one of highly competitive industry. companies to ensure compliance.
the largest drugstore chains in the United
States.
• Former Director of TransUnion and LifePoint
Health.
Other Public Board Service
• C.H. Robinson (2020–present)
• Visa (2022-present)
Committee Assignments and Rationale
A Audit Committee (Chair) N Risk and Return Committee
• Responsibility for all aspects of strategic, operational, and profit and loss • Operational experience at large, geographically dispersed service
management of two of the largest drugstore chains in the United States. organizations.
• Board leadership and nine years tenure on Allstate Board. • Chair of Allstate audit committee.
• Former member of the audit committee at TransUnion and the audit and
compliance committee at LifePoint Health.www.allstateproxy.com 21
Corporate Governance
Richard T.
Key Experience and Qualifications
Hume
Risk Management: Deep understanding of Sustainability: Experience developing and
Independent risk evaluation and management throughout driving sustainability initiatives in role as CEO of
Age 63 business transformation. public company.
Accounting and Finance: Strong operational Succession Planning and Human Capital
experience through various roles, including Management: Significant management and
Director since 2020
overseeing financial and accounting succession planning experience through various
3 years of tenure operations. senior leadership roles.
Technology and/or Cybersecurity: Innovation and Customer Focus: Experience
Professional Experience
Extensive technology background as a senior overseeing innovative strategy, technological
• Current CEO and director of TD SYNNEX, leader at IBM and CEO of an IT distribution advancement and transformative growth in
a global IT distribution and solutions and solutions company. global business services.
company. Global Perspective: Experience overseeing
• Former COO of Tech Data Corporation. all aspects of global operations of TD
SYNNEX.
• Former General Manager and COO, Global
Technology Services at IBM.
Other Public Board Service
• TD SYNNEX (2021–present)
Committee Assignments and Rationale
C Compensation and Human Capital Committee R Risk and Return Committee
• Significant management experience leading large companies as CEO and • In-depth understanding of technology, innovation and transformative
COO. growth.
• Comprehensive market knowledge of executive compensation, recruitment • Responsibility for strategic direction of large technology company.
and succession practices as CEO of TD SYNNEX.
Margaret M.
Key Experience and Qualifications
Keane
Financial Services: Extensive operational Sustainability: Drove various sustainability
Independent and strategic experience in the consumer priorities and programs throughout tenure as
Age 63 financial services industry as CEO of CEO, including diversity and inclusion initiatives.
Synchrony Financial. Succession Planning and Human Capital
Risk Management: In-depth understanding Management: Significant experience
Director since 2018
and experience in risk and return in developing succession planning and
5 years of tenure management as CEO of financial services performance goals as CEO of Synchrony.
company. Innovation and Customer Focus: Led strategic
Professional Experience
Accounting and Finance: Responsible for and technology transformation in rapidly
• Former Chair, CEO and President of overall operations of large financial services changing consumer payments industry.
Synchrony Financial, a consumer financial company. Government, Public Policy and Regulatory
services company. Technology and/or Cybersecurity: Valuable Affairs: Experience working with Business
• Former President and CEO of GE Capital insights into innovation and technology Roundtable to promote a thriving U.S. economy
Retail Finance. transformation strategies for large financial and expanded opportunity for all Americans
services company. through sound public policy.
Other Public Board Service
Complex, Highly Regulated Businesses:
• Synchrony Financial (2014–2023) Successful leadership experience across roles
spanning consumer finance, vendor financial
services, operations and quality.
Committee Assignments and Rationale
C Compensation and Human Capital Committee N Nominating, Governance and
Social Responsibility Committee
• Substantial experience in establishing management performance objectives
• Board leadership as former Chair of Synchrony Financial.
and specific goals.
• Thought leader and driver of inclusion and diversity initiatives.
• Significant market knowledge of executive compensation as the former CEO
of Synchrony Financial.22 2023 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Siddharth N.
Key Experience and Qualifications
(Bobby)
Mehta Financial Services: Extensive operational Complex, Highly Regulated Businesses:
and strategic experience in the industry as Valuable insights into the highly regulated
CEO of TransUnion and HSBC. insurance industry and investment activities
Independent
Risk Management: Deep understanding of throughout career in financial services industry.
Age 64
identifying and managing risk within global Sustainability: Investor in climate analytics
Director since 2014 risk and information solutions provider. company and thorough understanding of
(9 years of tenure) Accounting and Finance: Multiple leadership climate risk at financial services company.
positions with financial and accounting Succession Planning and Human Capital
Professional Experience oversight responsibility throughout career. Management: Led human capital and diversity
• Former President and CEO of TransUnion, a Technology and/or Cybersecurity: and inclusion initiatives and oversaw succession
global provider of credit information and risk Experience overseeing cybersecurity risk planning during tenure as CEO.
management solutions. initiatives and programs as director at other Innovation and Customer Focus: Significant
public companies. experience within customer-centric banking and
• Former Chairman and CEO, HSBC North
America Holdings Inc. Global Perspective: Demonstrated credit markets including the use of advanced
leadership that increased revenues and analytics.
• Former CEO, HSBC Finance Corporation.
global reach through the use of technology. Government, Public Policy and Regulatory
• Former Director of TransUnion and Piramal Affairs: Understanding of compliance issues
Enterprises Ltd. within highly regulated financial services
industry and effect of governmental actions.
Other Public Board Service
• JLL (Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated)
(2019–present)
• Northern Trust Corp. (2019–present)
Committee Assignments and Rationale
R Risk and Return Committee (Chair) A Audit Committee
• Significant experience in financial markets and utilization of data and • Multiple leadership positions with financial oversight responsibility,
analytics. including President and CEO of TransUnion, CEO of HSBC Finance
• In-depth understanding and experience in risk and return management as a Corporation, and Chairman and CEO of HSBC North America Holdings
director and former CEO. Inc.
• Chair of Allstate risk and return committee.
Jacques P.
Key Experience and Qualifications
Perold
Financial Services: Led investments and Complex, Highly Regulated Businesses: In-
Independent operations for large mutual fund as well as depth understanding of SEC and FINRA rules
Age 64 founded investment advisory firm. that regulate financial services industry.
Risk Management: Deep understanding of Sustainability: Served as chair of corporate
risks relevant to financial services industry, responsibility committee at another public
Director since 2015
specifically related to investment activities. company which includes oversight of
(7 years of tenure) Accounting and Finance: Held multiple sustainability initiatives.
leadership positions throughout career Succession Planning and Human Capital
Professional Experience
requiring financial and accounting oversight Management: As senior business leader,
• Chair and founder of CapShift, an responsibilities. established executive compensation program
investment advisory firm. Technology and/or Cybersecurity: management objectives and goals.
• Former President of Fidelity Management Experience using data-driven tools and Innovation and Customer Focus: Leader of one
& Research Company, a privately-held solutions to help clients build more effective of the world's largest asset management funds
investment and asset management portfolios. representing customers with nearly $2 trillion
company serving clients worldwide. assets under management.
• Founder, former President and Chief
Investment Officer of Geode Capital
Management LLC, a global asset manager
and independent institutional investment
firm and sub-advisor to Fidelity.
• Current trustee of New York Life Insurance
Company’s MainStay Funds.
Other Public Board Service
• MSCI Inc. (2017–present)
Committee Assignments and Rationale
A Audit Committee R Risk and Return Committee
• Multiple leadership positions with financial and operational oversight • Significant experience in management and oversight of risk for three
responsibilities, including as President of Fidelity Management & Research large asset management firms.
Company. • Current trustee of several mutual funds.www.allstateproxy.com 23
Corporate Governance
Andrea
Key Experience and Qualifications
Redmond
Financial Services: Substantial experience Succession Planning and Human Capital
Independent in financial services leadership selection and Management: Expert in public company
Age 67 executive development. succession planning, human capital
Risk Management: Extensive experience in management and executive compensation
assessing necessary board capabilities and across wide range of industries.
Director since 2010
evaluating director candidates to ensure Innovation and Customer Focus: Valuable
(13 years of tenure) adequate risk oversight on boards. insights and judgment gained through
Complex, Highly Regulated Businesses: supporting high-performance organizations and
Professional Experience Operational and strategic knowledge of clients in executing on corporate strategies.
• Former Managing Director, co-head of the highly regulated financial service companies Government, Public Policy and Regulatory
CEO/board services practice, founder and gained through experience in recruiting Affairs: Experience overseeing public policy
leader of global insurance practice, and senior leaders. issues and reporting as part of director
member of financial services practice at Sustainability: Leads ESG and sustainability responsibilities at Allstate.
Russell Reynolds Associates Inc., a global oversight responsibilities as chair of Global Perspective: Significant experience
executive search firm. nominating, governance and social providing executive recruiting and succession
• Independent consultant providing executive responsibility committee. planning services for large global search firm.
recruiting, succession planning, and human
capital management services.
Other Public Board Service
• None
Committee Assignments and Rationale
N Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility C Compensation and Human Capital Committee
Committee (Chair)
• Experience in executive recruiting, succession planning, and human
• Significant expertise recruiting and evaluating directors for a variety of capital management.
public companies.
• Extensive experience working with numerous publicly traded
• A senior partner at a highly regarded global executive search firm, Russell companies to recruit and place senior executives.
Reynolds Associates, from 1986 to 2007, including significant tenure as co-
head of the CEO/board services practice.
Gregg M.
Key Experience and Qualifications
Sherrill
Risk Management: In-depth understanding Sustainability: Oversight of sustainability
Independent of risk and return management as CEO and priorities gained throughout tenure as leader of
Lead Director director. a large public company, specifically related to
Age 70 Accounting and Finance: Created financial emissions control.
strategies and implemented operating plans Succession Planning and Human Capital
Director since 2017 to increase revenues and profitability during Management: Significant management
(5 years of tenure) tenure at Tenneco. experience, including executive recruitment and
Technology and/or Cybersecurity: compensation programs.
Professional Experience Technology expertise gained during tenure Innovation and Customer Focus: Valuable
• Former Executive Chair, CEO and director as a senior operating executive. insights into transformation and innovation
of Tenneco Inc., a producer of automotive Global Perspective: Successfully managed within customer-centric automotive industry.
emission control and ride control products international operations as CEO of a global Government, Public Policy and Regulatory
and systems. public company with employees in 23 Affairs: Understanding of public policy and
• Former Corporate Vice President and countries. regulatory issues.
President of Power Solutions at Johnson Complex, Highly Regulated Businesses:
Controls Inc., a global diversified technology Brings valuable insights and extensive
and industrial company. operational and strategic experience within
regulated automotive industry.
Other Public Board Service
• Snap-on Inc. (2010–present)
Committee Assignments and Rationale
N Nominating, Governance and
Lead Director
Social Responsibility Committee
• Extensive board leadership experience as former Chair of Tenneco and
• Significant leadership experience as the former Chair and CEO of
former chair of organization and executive compensation committee
Tenneco, including oversight over sustainability and governance
at Snap-On.
matters.
• Successfully led large, global manufacturing company through strategic
• Experience on corporate boards.
growth and operational change.
• Possesses strong integrity and professional credibility with the other
directors and has excellent knowledge of Allstate’s strategy and business.24 2023 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Judith A.
Key Experience and Qualifications
Sprieser
Financial Services: Tenure as Allstate Complex, Highly Regulated Businesses:
Independent director has provided deep knowledge and Understanding of government regulations
Age 69 understanding of financial services industry. relevant to insurance industry acquired through
Risk Management: Risk and return tenure as Allstate director.
management expertise gained through Sustainability: Tenure as CEO and director at
Director since 1999
service on boards of multiple publicly other public companies, including as former
(23 years of tenure) traded companies. Lead Director at Allstate, has included oversight
Accounting and Finance: Extensive of sustainability initiatives and programs.
Professional Experience
evaluation of financial statements and Succession Planning and Human Capital
• Former CEO of Transora Inc., a technology supervision of financial executives during Management: Significant executive
software and services company. tenure as CFO. management and succession planning
• Former CFO and other senior operating Global Perspective: Experience experience gained through service on other
executive positions at Sara Lee Corporation, gained through service on boards of boards and as former CEO.
a global manufacturer and marketer of international companies. Innovation and Customer Focus: Wide-
brand-name consumer goods. ranging operational experience at consumer
goods company.
• Former director at Royal Ahold NV, Experian,
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and
Jimmy Choo plc.
Other Public Board Service
• Newell Brands Inc. (2018–present)
• Intercontinental Exchange Inc.
(2004–present)
Committee Assignments and Rationale
C Compensation and Human Capital Committee R Risk and Return Committee
• Extensive experience leading other large companies as CEO and CFO. • Insight from service as prior chair of Allstate’s audit committee and
• Experience serving on boards of other publicly traded and international current audit committee chair at Intercontinental Exchange Inc.
companies. • Tenure as an Allstate director has provided experience through
multiple operating environments.
Perry M.
Key Experience and Qualifications
Traquina
Financial Services: Strong financial services Complex, Highly Regulated Businesses: In-
Independent and investment management expertise as depth understanding of SEC and FINRA rules
Age 66 CEO of large investment management firm. that regulate financial services industry.
Risk Management: Deep understanding Sustainability: Oversaw sustainability initiatives
of risk and return management within during tenure as CEO and chairman of
Director since 2016
financial services industry and brings outside Wellington and provides insights gained from
(6 years of tenure) perspective as chair of risk committee at service on other public company boards.
another public company. Succession Planning and Human Capital
Professional Experience
Accounting and Finance: Expertise in Management: Deep understanding of executive
• Former Chairman, CEO and Managing evaluating financial statements and reports compensation practices.
Partner of Wellington Management gained through service on audit company at Innovation and Customer Focus: Built a
Company LLP, one of the world’s largest another public company as well as financial world-class investment organization by more
global investment management firms with education background. than doubling assets under management
over $1 trillion of assets under management. Technology and/or Cybersecurity: during tenure.
• Held a series of positions of increasing Experience on another public company Government, Public Policy and Regulatory
responsibility at Wellington, including audit committee includes oversight of Affairs: Brings valuable market-oriented
Partner and President. cybersecurity programs. investor perspective.
Global Perspective: Led one of the world's
Other Public Board Service
largest global investment management firms
• Morgan Stanley (2015–present) including the globalization of Wellington's
investment platform.
• eBay Inc. (2015–present)
Committee Assignments and Rationale
C Compensation and Human Capital Committee (Chair) R Risk and Return Committee
• Significant management experience as former Chairman and CEO of • In-depth understanding of financial markets, asset allocation
Wellington Management Company LLP from 2004 through June 2014. strategies, and investment performance management.
• Shareholder perspective on compensation and human capital as a • Current chair of the risk committee at Morgan Stanley.
significant investor and director of other public companies.www.allstateproxy.com 25
Corporate Governance
Monica
Key Experience and Qualifications
Turner
Financial Services: Overall responsibility for Sustainability: Responsibility for sustainability
Independent all financial, sales and operational aspects of initiatives and programs for North America
Age 57 the largest and most profitable region of a region of Procter & Gamble.
global consumer goods company. Succession Planning and Human Capital
Risk Management: Significant experience in Management: Recognized leader of equality
Director since 2023
management and oversight of risk and return and inclusion within Procter & Gamble and the
(<1 years of tenure) for a large consumer goods company. broader community.
Accounting and Finance: Multiple Innovation and Customer Focus: Wide-ranging
Professional Experience leadership positions with financial oversight operational and leadership experience at consumer
• Current President, North America of responsibility in many business units within goods company, serving 370 million consumers in
Procter & Gamble. Procter & Gamble. the region.
• Former President, North America Sales of Technology and/or Cybersecurity: Government, Public Policy and Regulatory
Procter & Gamble. Experience delivering transformational Affairs: Responsible for operations, spanning sales
results through technology in role as head of offices, technical centers, manufacturing plants
• Former EVP and Head of Sales, North
largest region of Procter & Gamble. and mixing centers, and partners with multiple
America of Procter & Gamble.
Global Perspective: Extensive experience government agencies.
• Former SVP, Sales of Beauty, Health and
gained during tenure with one of the world’s
Grooming Sector of Procter & Gamble.
largest consumer goods company, including
membership on Procter & Gamble’s Global
Other Public Board Service
Leadership Council.
• None
Committee Assignments and Rationale
• Consistent with past practice, committee assignments will be established
during first year of service.
Thomas J.
Key Experience and Qualifications
Wilson
Financial Services: Extensive experience Complex, Highly Regulated Businesses:
Board Chair, gained within financial services industry Valuable insights into the highly regulated
President, and throughout entire career, including 28 insurance industry and investment activities
Chief Executive years with Allstate, and holds other active throughout career at Allstate.
Officer leadership positions in the industry. Sustainability: Enhanced sustainability initiatives
Risk Management: Created and implemented at Allstate and is noted public advocate for
Age 65
Allstate's risk and return optimization program, business playing a broad role in society.
Director since 2006 allowing Allstate to withstand the financial Succession Planning and Human Capital
(16 years of tenure) market crisis while also continuing to adapt to Management: Extensive experience leading
increased severe weather. large teams and provides valuable insights in
Professional Experience Accounting and Finance: Experience with executive recruitment and succession planning.
• CEO since January 2007 and Chair of Board strategic, financial and operational planning Innovation and Customer Focus: Shaped
since May 2008. and analysis gained over tenure with Allstate, and executed initiatives to fulfill Allstate's role
including as CEO and COO. with, and responsibilities to, its customers
• President from June 2005 to January 2015,
Technology and/or Cybersecurity: Led and other key stakeholders. Created and led
and from February 23, 2018, to present.
investments in innovative products and Transformative Growth strategy to build a digital
• Held senior executive roles other than CEO, services at Allstate including telematics, insurance business model.
having led all major operating units. digital protection solutions and customer- Government, Public Policy and Regulatory
• Former director at State Street Corporation. centric innovations. Affairs: Understanding of legal and regulatory
Global Perspective: Leads Fortune 100 requirements relevant for large, public
Other Public Board Service company with operations and over 20% of companies to ensure compliance.
• None employees outside of the U.S.
Committee Assignments and Rationale
E Executive Committee (Chair)
• Comprehensive knowledge of Allstate’s business and industry, with 28 years
of leadership experience at the company.
• Significant governance experience through active dialogue with
shareholders and corporate governance experts.26 2023 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Board and Nominee Independence Determinations
The Board has determined that all nominated directors, other than Mr. Wilson,
are independent according to applicable law, the NYSE listing standards, and the
Board's Director Independence Standards. The Board’s Director Independence
11
92%
Standards are included on www.allstateinvestors.com. In accordance with the
Director Independence Standards, the Board has determined that the nature Independent
of the relationships with the corporation that are set forth in Appendix B do not
create a conflict of interest that would impair a director’s independence. The
Board also determined that the members of the audit, compensation and human
capital, nominating, governance and social responsibility, and risk and return committees are independent according to
applicable laws, the NYSE listing standards, and the Board's Director Independence Standards.
Additional independence considerations
When evaluating the independence of director nominees, the Board weighs numerous factors, including tenure and service
on other public company boards.
Directors with more than 12 years of service are subject to specific considerations to ensure an undiminished level of
independence. In particular, the Board weighed the potential impact of tenure on the independence of our longest-
serving directors, Mses. Redmond and Sprieser. Ms. Redmond provides valuable perspectives and expertise on matters
of significance to Allstate and is a respected leader in the Board room. The Board concluded that Ms. Redmond is a
valued director who fulfills her responsibilities with independent-minded oversight. Ms. Sprieser has significant
experience serving at Allstate under different operating environments, management teams and financial market cycles,
and served on the Board under two CEOs and prior to Mr. Wilson’s appointment. The Board concluded that Ms. Sprieser
is an effective director who fulfills her responsibilities with integrity and independence of thought. Mses. Redmond
and Sprieser appropriately challenge management and the status quo, and are reasoned, balanced, and thoughtful in
Board deliberations and in communications with management. The Board determined that each of Ms. Redmond and
Ms. Sprieser’s independence from management has not been diminished by their years of service.
Related Person Transactions
The nominating, governance and social responsibility committee has adopted a written policy on the review, approval,
or ratification of transactions with related persons, which is posted on the Corporate Governance section of
www.allstateinvestors.com.
Since the beginning of 2022, there were no related person transactions identified.
The committee or committee chair reviews transactions with Allstate in which the amount involved exceeds $120,000
and in which any related person had, has, or will have a direct or indirect material interest. In general, related persons
are directors, executive officers, their immediate family members, and shareholders beneficially owning more than 5% of
our outstanding stock. The committee or committee chair approves or ratifies only those transactions that are in, or not
inconsistent with, the best interests of Allstate and its shareholders. Transactions are reviewed and approved or ratified by
the committee chair when it is not practicable or desirable to delay review of a transaction until a committee meeting. The
committee chair reports any approved transactions to the committee. Any ongoing, previously approved, or ratified related
person transactions are reviewed annually.www.allstateproxy.com 27
Corporate Governance
Effective Board Governance at Allstate
Allstate has a history of strong corporate governance guided by three primary principles: dialogue, transparency and
responsiveness. The Board has enhanced governance policies over time to align with best practices, drive sustained
shareholder value and serve the interests of shareholders.
1 Board • Regularly consider candidates in light of current skill
Allstate believes that
sets and needs, as well as in anticipation of retirements,
Composition strong and effective
resignations or changing business dynamics
• All candidates evaluated and considered for their governance practices
See pages 28-29>
expertise, professional experiences and leadership are critical to long-
• Diversity, including race, gender, ethnicity and culture, term value creation.
are also important factors in consideration of Board To achieve that
composition
goal, Allstate follows
• Added five new directors within the last five years,
the six corporate
including three that brought gender and/or ethnic/
governance principles
racial diversity to the Board
set out by the Investor
Stewardship Group for
2 Board • Board evaluation process includes multiple U.S. listed companies.
assessments and reviews of the Board, committees and
Effectiveness
individual directors
• Robust director orientation and continuing director
See pages 30-32>
education program
• High standards of corporate governance 1. Boards are
accountable to
shareholders
2. Shareholders
3 Engaged • Frequent reviews of Allstate’s significant risks, including should be entitled
strategic, climate, human capital practices, culture, to voting rights in
Oversight
financial, investment markets and cybersecurity proportion to their
See pages 33-40> • Ongoing reviews of overall ESG strategy, including economic interest
climate change, human capital management and
organizational health 3. Boards should
be responsive
• Reviews progress against three-year Inclusive, Diversity
and Equity strategy twice a year to shareholders
and be proactive
in order to
4 Board • Comprehensive and continuous shareholder understand their
engagement program based on dialogue, transparency, perspectives
Accountability
and responsiveness
4. Boards should
• Interactive investor dialogue provides perspective on
See pages 41-44> have a strong,
investor concerns
• Feedback is provided to the Board and actions are independent
taken to reflect shareholder sentiment and ensure leadership
continued best practice structure
5. Boards should
adopt structures
5 Board • Clearly defined roles for Board leadership
and practices that
• Strong Board independence with 11 out of 12 members
Structure enhance their
independent of management, including all standing
effectiveness
See pages 45-49> committee members
• Instituted written policy to rotate Lead Director every 6. Boards should
three to five years and appointed new Lead Director develop
in 2021 management
• Independent Board Committees with frequent incentive
executive sessions
structures that are
• Appropriate director compensation structured in a
aligned with the
manner that is aligned with shareholder interests
long-term strategy
of the company28 2023 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
1
Board Composition
Essential Characteristics of Effective Directors
The Board considers multiple characteristics essential for each nominee to ensure Board excellence and effectiveness.
These characteristics are considered for proposed and standing directors consistent with the criteria described in the
Corporate Governance Guidelines (available at www.allstateinvestors.com).
Core Competencies Additional Capabilities Independence
Certain core competencies are Other skills, expertise and Directors should be free of
required of all director nominees experience are needed on the interests or affiliations that could
to ensure effective oversight of Board to further facilitate effective give rise to a biased approach to
the affairs of the company for oversight of Allstate’s business directorship responsibilities or a
the benefit of its shareholders. strategies and priorities. These conflict of interest and to be free
These include strategic oversight, are described on page 15. of any significant relationship
shareholder advocacy, corporate with Allstate that would interfere
governance and leadership. with the director’s exercise of
independent judgment.
Commitment Other Directorships
Board members should have The Board has limits on the
the ability to devote the time number of other public boards
and effort necessary to serve on which our directors may
as an effective director and act sit. Directors who are active
in a manner consistent with executives may serve on the
a director’s fiduciary duties board of no more than two other
of loyalty and care. Allstate public companies, and other
executive officers may not serve directors may serve on the board
on boards of other corporations of no more than four other public
whose executive officers serve on companies (in addition to Allstate’s
Allstate’s Board. Board in each case).
Diversity in its broadest sense is a key consideration in identifying and evaluating
directors for nomination. Our nominating, governance and social responsibility
committee considers a number of demographics and other factors, including
race, gender and ethnicity, to ensure the Board reflects diverse viewpoints,
backgrounds, skills, experiences and expertise.
Our Nominees
3 Black/African 1 Asian/Other 4
American Pacific Islander Femalewww.allstateproxy.com 29
Corporate Governance
Board Nomination Process
The Board continually considers potential director candidates in anticipation of retirements, resignations, or the
need for additional capabilities. Below is a description of the ongoing process to identify highly qualified candidates
for Board service.
Board nominees are identified through a retained search firm, suggestions from current directors and shareholders, and
through other methods, including self-nominations. Our newest director, Ms. Turner, was identified by a search firm.
The nominating, governance and social responsibility committee will consider director candidates recommended by a
shareholder in the same manner as all other candidates recommended by other sources. A shareholder may recommend
a candidate at any time of the year by writing to the Office of the Secretary, The Allstate Corporation, 3100 Sanders Road,
Northbrook, IL 60062, or by email submission to invrel@allstate.com.
A shareholder or group of up to 20 shareholders owning 3% or more of Allstate’s outstanding common stock continuously for
at least three years can nominate director candidates constituting up to 20% of the Board in the company’s annual meeting
proxy materials.
Evaluate Board Composition
Ensure Board is strong in core competencies of
Evaluate Assess strategic oversight, corporate governance, shareholder
Consider
Board Potential advocacy and leadership and has diversity of skills,
Diversity
Composition Candidates expertise and perspectives to meet existing and future
business needs
Consider Diversity
The Board considers a number of demographic factors
to develop a Board that, as a whole, reflects diverse
Check representation, viewpoints and backgrounds
Board
Conflicts of
Nomination Assess Potential Candidates
Interest and
To ensure appropriate personal qualities, such as
Process
References
independence of mind, tenacity, and skill set to meet
existing or future business needs
Check Conflicts of Interest and References
All candidates are screened for conflicts of interest and
Nominating, independence
Board Governance Meet with
Meet with Qualified Candidates
Dialogue and Social Qualified
To ensure appropriate personal qualities, such as
and Decision Responsibility Candidates
independence of mind, tenacity, and skill set to meet
Dialogue
existing or future business needs and strategic priorities
Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility
Dialogue
To consider shortlisted candidates, and after
deliberations, recommend candidates for election to
the Board
Board Dialogue and Decision
Added five highly qualified directors in the past five
yearsCorporate Governance
30 2023 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
2
Board Effectiveness
Board Evaluation Process
Allstate’s Board evaluation process includes multiple assessments and reviews performed throughout the year.
This process ensures that the Board’s governance and oversight responsibilities are updated to reflect best practices
and are well executed. These evaluations include discussions after every meeting, an annual Board assessment, annual
committee assessments and individual director evaluations.
Steps to Achieve Board Effectiveness
Board Individual Directors
Frequency Evaluation at Annual evaluation Biennial review Annual evaluation Change in
every regular of responsibilities circumstances
meeting and time
allocation
Performed Independent Board, Committee Board and Lead Director, nominating, Board
By Directors Chairs and Lead Committees governance and social
Director responsibility committee
chair, and Board Chair
Description Measures Ensures Board Ensures all Review contributions and Determine
effectiveness of and committees necessary issues performance in light of appropriateness
Board oversight are functioning were considered Allstate’s business and of director’s
effectively to fulfill Board strategies and confirm continued
Ensures meeting and committee continued independence membership on
objectives were Results reviewed responsibilities the Board after a
satisfied, all by nominating, Feedback provided to change in primary
agenda items governance and Adjustments each director by the Lead employment
sufficiently social responsibility made to future Director, nominating,
considered and committee and agendas governance and social Review potential
information summarized and timelines responsibility committee conflicts and
presented for full Board; chair, or Board Chair whether change
was complete, recommendations impacts director’s
understandable for improvement Discuss each director’s ability to devote
and organized are reviewed and future plans for continued the necessary
implemented Board service time and effort to
Identifies issues Board service
that need
additional
dialogue
2022 Outcome
Based on the Board’s annual evaluation process, the nominating, governance and social responsibility
committee reviewed feedback and established action items for the upcoming year. Results of individual
director evaluations were used by the nominating, governance and social responsibility committee in
connection with the annual nomination process. Specific action plans were discussed with each director.www.allstateproxy.com 31
Corporate Governance
2022 Annual Evaluation Feedback and Action Items
01 02 03
Strategy and Board Structure Information and
Operational Oversight and Culture Resources
Directors find the three-day Directors appreciate the Directors appreciate the
strategy session to be highly transparency in the Board executive sessions at every
effective. room and believe the dialogue meeting and value the candid
appropriately challenges dialogue.
Directors value the frequent
management and leads to
updates on Transformative Directors value the use of outside
effective oversight.
Growth, succession planning, speakers on key strategic
ESG priorities and the Societal Directors are pleased with steps matters.
Engagement Framework. taken to increase diversity at
the Board level and believe
the current mix of skills and
experience are appropriate.
Action Items Action Items Action Items
Management will provide Diversity will continue to be Time limits will be used for
additional updates in between prioritized with a facilitated Board meeting presentations to
Board meetings related to discussion. ensure adequate time for robust
changes to key strategical dialogue and executive sessions.
matters.
External speakers will continue
CEO succession planning and to be utilized, including an
senior leadership development additional speaker at the three-
will remain focus areas. day strategy session.
Director Onboarding and Continuing Education
Orientation All new directors participate in a robust director orientation and onboarding process to
ensure a working knowledge of Allstate’s business, strategies, operating performance
and culture and a successful integration into boardroom discussions as soon as possible.
To assist with their development, all new directors are invited to attend all committee
meetings prior to their appointment to a particular committee.
Director Commitment The commitment of our directors extends well beyond preparation for, and participation
Beyond the Boardroom at, regularly scheduled Board meetings. Engagement beyond the boardroom provides our
directors with additional insights into Allstate's businesses and industry.
Directors regularly meet with senior leaders and employees below the senior leadership
level. These interactions are offered in various forums, including one-on-one meetings and
larger group sessions.
Directors also participate in informal meetings with other directors and senior leaders
to share ideas, build stronger working relationships, gain broader perspectives, and
strengthen their working knowledge of Allstate’s business, strategy, operating performance
and culture.
Allstate also encourages and facilitates director participation in continuing education
programs, and each director is given the opportunity to become a member of the National
Association of Corporate Directors.32 2023 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Board Re-Nomination Process
The Board recognizes the importance of evaluating individual directors and their contributions to the Board in connection
with re-nomination decisions. In considering whether to recommend re-nomination of a director for election, the nominating,
governance and social responsibility committee conducts a detailed review, considering several factors.
Evaluation of Board Composition
• Essential characteristics • Evolving strategy and risk and return profile • Attendance and
• Shareholder feedback • Time commitment participation
• Retirements • Board and director evaluations • Diversity
For more
How the Board Considers Each Factor information
Essential Whether the director continues to possess the core competencies and additional page 28
characteristics capabilities necessary to ensure continued success of the Board
Evolving strategy The extent to which the director's skills, perspectives and experience (including that page 33
and risk and gained due to service on the Board) continue to contribute to the effective oversight of
return profile Allstate's business and strategic priorities
Board and Feedback received during the annual Board evaluation and discussions between pages 30-31
director each individual director and the Lead Director, nominating, governance and social
evaluations responsibility committee chair, and Board Chair
Attendance and Attendance at, and participation during, Board and committee meetings page 47
participation
Diversity The extent to which the director contributes to the diversity of the Board page 29
Time Outside board and other affiliations, including overboarding considerations, time page 26
commitment commitment and potential conflicts of interest or independence concerns
Retirement Whether the director has reached the retirement age specified in Allstate's director N/A
policy retirement policy
Shareholder Feedback received from shareholders, including support received during the most page 42
Feedback recent annual shareholder meetingwww.allstateproxy.com 33
Corporate Governance
3
Board Oversight
Key Areas of Risk Oversight
The Board has primary
responsibility for risk oversight.
This includes oversight of Allstate's
Enterprise Risk and Return Management
Political (“ERRM”), which applies risk-return principles,
Climate Strategy
Engagement modeling and analytics, governance, and
transparent management dialogue for the
company's significant risk and return priorities.
Risks are regularly identified, measured, managed,
and reported and risk and return perspectives
are shared with the Board across six risk types:
financial, insurance, investment, operational,
strategic execution, and culture. The chief risk
Risk and officer’s assessment of Allstate’s current risk
position and alignment with risk and return
Cybersecurity Return Compensation
principles is reviewed throughout the year,
Management
including risks associated with culture, climate,
strategy, succession planning, political process,
human capital, compensation and cybersecurity.
See page 60 for additional detailed
information about governance and
oversight of ESG.
Human Capital Management
What’s New
Allstate’s Societal Engagement Framework
helps the Board evaluate, prepare for and act
on societal issues important to the company.
Strategy
The Board provides oversight on the development and implementation of Allstate’s strategic plans and associated
risks. The full Board oversees strategy and enterprise risk and Board committees have additional oversight of
various aspects of Allstate’s strategy.
Strategy is discussed at each regular Board meeting and presentations are provided by management on specific strategic
initiatives and topics such as short- and long-term strategic and operational plans, capital utilization, investment returns,
acquisitions and divestitures, capital market transactions and strategic ESG priorities. Management reviews with the Board
Allstate’s overall corporate strategy and key strategic risks and returns, which are assessed by the chief risk officer annually.
Throughout 2022, the Board engaged on an ongoing basis with management on the execution of the Transformative
Growth strategy and progress towards achieving each of the various components of the strategic and annual operating
plans.34 2023 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Political Engagement
Allstate engages in public policy advocacy at the state and federal levels to foster market innovation, protect
consumers, promote safety and security, ensure a healthy regulatory system, and promote fiscal responsibility.
Allstate is regulated in all 50 states, Canada and at the federal level on many aspects of its business, including insurance
pricing, claims practices, customer communications, privacy, sales practices, underwriting standards, investments and
capital. As a result, it must participate in public policy issues to achieve Our Shared Purpose, including serving customers
and generating attractive returns for shareholders. The scope of issues includes innovative products and services through
the use of telematics auto insurance pricing, Arity, Allstate Protection Plans, Allstate Identity Protection and Avail (car
sharing).
Allstate participates in political activities through direct and indirect advocacy, corporate political contributions and
Allstate’s political action committee. Allstate contributes less than $1,000,000 annually in corporate funds to
political organizations, including federal, state and local candidates and committees, in comparison to total revenues of
$51.4 billion (less than 0.002% of total revenue). The types of expenditures are consistent from year to year.
The chief risk officer conducts an annual risk and return assessment of Allstate’s political activities for the Board to
ensure there is appropriate oversight and management of corporate political engagement. In addition, the Board’s
nominating, governance and social responsibility committee provides oversight of Allstate’s political contributions
and activities, including in a joint session with the Board.
Chief Risk Officer’s Assessment
The chief risk officer’s assessment approach is based on Principles and Guidance for Responsible Corporate Political
Engagement published by Transparency International UK. The political activities and associated risks identified by
Transparency International UK were expanded to address Allstate’s specific activities and risk profile. These political
activities were grouped for assessment as follows: i) political expenditures, ii) lobbying, iii) trade associations, social
welfare groups and research organizations, iv) state-based regulatory and legislation management, v) political
activities in the workplace and vi) disclosure.
The chief risk officer’s assessment concluded the following:
1. Strong governance is in place to provide transparency and promote dialogue around advocacy priorities
and initiatives
2. Allstate’s political engagement risk profile and control framework remain stable versus prior year
3. Reputation risk remains moderate and while numerous controls exist to limit exposure, a single candidate
or organization could create negative publicity and market perception
4. Lack of engagement would increase the likelihood of unfavorable legislation and policies, resulting in
adverse business outcomes.www.allstateproxy.com 35
Corporate Governance
Cybersecurity
The Board focuses on Allstate’s security and data privacy programs, recognizing
that the quality and functionality of these programs affects reputation and
Cybersecurity Governance
customer trust. Allstate’s strategy revolves around protecting customers, and
Best Practices
customers must feel that their personal data is safe.
% Utilizes an independent
Accordingly, the Board prioritizes its responsibility to oversee data protection efforts, cybersecurity advisor reporting to
including policies and systems designed to prevent and, if necessary, respond to the audit committee to provide
cyber threats. The Board also oversees the company’s information security program, objective assessments of Allstate’s
which is designed to protect and preserve the confidentiality, integrity and continued capabilities and to conduct
availability of all information owned by, or in the care of, the company. This program advanced attack simulations
includes a cyber incident response plan that provides controls and procedures for
% Crisis simulations to prepare senior
timely and accurate reporting of any material cybersecurity incident. Allstate is
leaders to respond to a cyber attack
continually enhancing information security capabilities in order to protect against
emerging threats, detect system compromise and recover should a cyber-attack or % Audit committee charter directs the
unauthorized access occur. Board’s data privacy oversight efforts
% Cross-functional approach to
The cybersecurity program is regularly reviewed and tested by Allstate’s internal audit overseeing and addressing
function with quarterly status reports provided to the audit committee and the full cybersecurity risk, with input
Board. The audit committee receives semi-annual reports from its independent from technology, risk, legal, and
cybersecurity advisor. audit functions
Climate
Climate change is one of the most critical challenges today as it threatens customers, businesses and communities. In addition to
developing products and services that address climate change and the transition to a lower-carbon future, senior management works
with the Board to identify, measure, manage and monitor climate risks, including those presented by severe weather, increased
natural catastrophes, related policy shifts and the development of new technology.
Allstate’s business viability depends on effectively modeling, pricing and managing climate-related risks, as well as meeting the needs that
result from a changing climate and a changing society. Climate risks are managed within our ERRM framework and evaluated across six key
categories: strategic, insurance, financial, investment, operational and cultural risk. The Board regularly hears from Allstate’s chief risk officer
about climate change risks and reviewed climate risk at two meetings in 2022.
Climate Risk Management
Climate risks are managed within Allstate's integrated ERRM framework, which applies risk-return principles, modeling and
analytics, governance and transparent dialogue to understand the company’s highest-priority risks.
Risk Identification Risk Assessments
• Insurance risk: An increase in severe weather events has • Allstate’s Catastrophe Modeling and Analytics team
increased customers' potential homeowners losses, requiring and pricing groups assess climate change information
risk management actions such as changes in pricing, product and establish pricing, underwriting, concentration and
coverages, geography, underwriting practices and reinsurance coverage standards. The team uses information from
utilization. the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC),
• Investment risk: Allstate's investment process reflects some the U.S. Global Change Research Program (USGCRP)
of the same climate risk considerations as the company's and the ACI, all of which conduct robust reviews and
insurance underwriting process. Potential environmental and provide objective measures to provide decision makers
severe weather risks are considered when making investments with balanced information. The Responsible Investing
and limiting exposure to sectors with higher climate risk. ESG Committee and the Investments Risk Committee assess
considerations and climate-specific metrics are included in investments for potential short- and long- term exposures
asset management decisions. to climate change.
• Reputational risk: Climate change is important to customers
Risk Monitoring and Reporting
and other key stakeholders, and we collaborate through
• Through Sustainability, TCFD and Climate Disclosure
external partnerships and public engagements.
Project reports, Allstate reports on progress in mitigating
climate change. We also continue to apply emerging
Risk Mitigation
data science to risk assessment, including exploring
• The Actuaries Climate Index (ACI) measures extreme weather
partnerships with startups that specialize in forward-
and sea level increases through quarterly updates. The
looking climate modeling. In 2022, Allstate publicly
Catastrophe Modeling and Analytics team monitors state-
disclosed science-aligned targets to reduce Scope 1 and 2
specific risks and competitors' actions and partners with
emissions and Scope 3 financed emissions.
the Investments team to model mortgage and real estate
portfolios. The outcome of the assessment are incorporated
into decision-making to balance risk and return.36 2023 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Compensation
Compensation policies and practices are structured to reward employees for successfully executing the company’s
strategies and annual operating plans while adhering to risk and return principles.
The compensation and human capital committee concluded the compensation plans are structured to ensure
management does not take unnecessary or excessive risk based on assessments from the committee’s independent
advisor and chief risk officer. Allstate’s compensation policies ensure balance of risk and return, while minimizing
risks that could have a material adverse effect on Allstate.
• Compensation plans balance annual and long-term incentives that align with short- and long-term business goals. No
one, regardless of eligibility, is guaranteed an award under the annual cash incentive program.
• Multiple performance measures are utilized that correlate with shareholder value creation and diversify the risk
associated with any single performance indicator. In addition, the annual incentive program contains a funding
adjustment for senior executives in the event of a net loss, which reduces the corporate pool funding for those officers
by 50% of actual performance. Likewise, for the performance stock award program, the compensation and human capital
committee requires positive net income in order for executives to earn PSAs for Average Performance Net Income ROE
above target.
• Equity awards and annual cash incentive awards are subject to a clawback policy, which provides for the recovery of
certain equity awards and annual cash incentive awards to executive officers and other executive vice presidents.
If performance results are later subject to a downward adjustment as a result of a material financial restatement,
irrespective of cause, then the paid awards are recalculated with revised results with the compensation overpayment
subject to clawback. The clawback policy also provides for recovery of equity and annual cash incentive awards in
certain circumstances if an executive is terminated for improper conduct that leads to a material adverse impact on the
reputation of, or a material adverse economic consequence for, the company.
Board Role in Setting Compensation
The compensation and human capital committee makes recommendations to the Board on compensation for the CEO and
executive officers and the structure of plans used for executive officers. The compensation and human capital committee
reviews the executive compensation program throughout the year with the assistance of an independent compensation
consultant, Pay Governance. Pay Governance’s responsibilities include:
• benchmarking Allstate’s plans and compensation relative to the market,
• evaluating changes to the executive compensation program, and
• assessing Allstate’s executive compensation design, peer group selection, relative pay for performance, and total direct
compensation for individual senior executive positions.
The compensation and human capital committee annually evaluates the compensation consultant’s performance
and independence.
The compensation and human capital committee grants all equity awards to individuals designated as executive officers
for purposes of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or covered employees as defined in Internal Revenue
Code Section 162(m). The compensation and human capital committee has authority to grant equity awards to eligible
employees in accordance with the terms of our 2019 Equity Incentive Plan. The Board has delegated limited authority to
the CEO and the CHRO to grant equity awards to non-executive officers. All awards granted between compensation and
human capital committee meetings are reported at the next meeting. The compensation consultant also provides the
nominating, governance and social responsibility committee with competitive information on director compensation.www.allstateproxy.com 37
Corporate Governance
Human Capital Management
The Board engages in an ongoing review of human
Pay Equity Analysis
capital management practices since they are vital
to Allstate’s continued success. This includes % As part of Allstate’s commitment to fair and equitable
overall organizational health and practices, such as compensation practices, an internal pay equity
recruitment, development, and retention as well as analysis is completed on an annual basis.
progress against the company’s inclusive diversity
% For the fourth year in a row, Allstate engaged
and equity (IDE) strategy and goals.
an outside firm to provide a detailed pay equity
analysis to identify potential pay gaps across
Inclusive Diversity and Equity
substantially similar employee groups and identify
IDE is a core value in Allstate's Shared Purpose. In policies, practices or systematic issues that may
furtherance of the goal to be a differentiated IDE contribute to pay gaps now or over time.
leader, Allstate launched a multi-year IDE strategy
% The external analysis found that Allstate’s results
that is overseen by the Board. The Board reviewed
compare well to benchmarks for companies of
IDE topics at multiple meetings in 2022, including a
similar size and scope. In the few employee groups
presentation by an outside speaker on IDE priorities
where pay gaps were identified, these gaps were
and opportunities, leading to effective oversight of
remediated and policies were established to ensure
this important initiative.
pay equity continues in the future.
Board Role in Reviewing Culture
At Allstate, we believe that a purpose driven company must be powered by purpose driven people.
Culture is defined as a self-sustaining system of shared values, priorities and principles that shape beliefs, drive
behaviors and influence decision making within an organization.
At Allstate, we are focusing on how we recruit, retain, develop and engage employees. Organizational culture is included as
a key risk category and is monitored and measured by management’s ERRM framework and overseen by the Board. This
“tone at the top” message ensures that management is held accountable for its implementation and maintenance of high
ethical standards and protecting Allstate’s reputation, assets and business. By including culture as a key risk category, the
Board is able to review culture at a granular level. The Board reviewed organizational culture at two meetings in 2022.38 2023 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Board Role in Succession Planning
The Board’s involvement in leadership development and succession planning is systematic and ongoing. Management
succession is discussed four times annually in compensation and human capital committee meetings, Board meetings,
and executive sessions. Discussions cover the CEO and other senior executive roles. The Board also has regular and direct
exposure to senior leadership and high-potential officers in meetings held throughout the year.
Board Reviews Management Leadership Succession Planning Continuously throughout the Year
April July
CEO Succession Talent Development
Topic:
Topic:
CEO succession planning
Organizational health and pay fairness analyses – how the
Primary Focus: organization recruits, develops and retains people, including
• Internal succession alternatives across multiple time its inclus ive diversity and equity commitments
periods – immediate, less than 2 years, and 3-5 years
• Alternatives are evaluated under different strategic Primary Focus:
and operating scenarios • Systematic approach to talent acquisition,
development, and retention
Topic:
Topic:
CEO and senior leadership scenario
Senior leadership succession alternatives
succession planning
Primary Focus: Primary Focus:
• Board dialogue in advance of • Key leader development and retention
unexpected succession issues
November September
Scenario Planning Key Leader Successionwww.allstateproxy.com 39
Corporate Governance
Risk Management Program and Board Oversight
The Board oversees Enterprise Risk and Return Management (“ERRM”), including management’s design and
implementation of ERRM practices. ERRM applies risk-return principles, modeling and analytics, governance, and
transparent management dialogue to understand the company’s highest-priority risks. The chief risk officer’s assessment
of Allstate’s current risk position and alignment with risk and return principles is reviewed throughout the year, including
reviews of compensation programs and political engagement. Significant risks, including those affected by climate change,
financial markets, cybersecurity and privacy threats, are regularly identified, measured, managed, and reported.
Comprehensive Risk Management Oversight
ERRM governance includes Board oversight, an executive management committee, and chief risk officers that oversee
various areas of Allstate.
The Board has overall responsibility for oversight of Allstate's ERRM program, including
management’s design and implementation of the ERRM framework. Oversight is supported
by the audit and risk and return committees. The audit committee oversees the effectiveness
of internal controls over financial reporting, disclosure controls, and procedures, as well
as management’s risk control framework and cybersecurity program. The risk and return
committee oversees the effectiveness of the ERRM program, governance structure and risk-
related decision-making, while focusing on the company’s aggregate risk profile.
For further information on the risk oversight responsibilities of each committee, see page 40.
The Enterprise Risk and Return Council (“ERRC”) directs ERRM activities by establishing risk and
return targets, determining economic capital levels, and monitoring integrated strategies and
actions from an enterprise risk and return perspective. The ERRC consists of Allstate’s Chief
Executive Officer, CRO, CFO, Market-Facing Business leaders, and other senior leaders.
Business unit chief risk officers report into the ERRM team, fostering a culture of collaboration,
efficiency, and cross-functional dialogue regarding risks and opportunities.
Various management committees work with the ERRC to direct ERRM activities, including the
Operating Committee, the Operational Risk and Return Council, the Information Security Council, the
ESG Steering Committee, liability governance committees, and investment committees.
Risk and return perspectives are shared with the Board across six risk types
Strategic
Financial Insurance Investment Operational Culture
Execution40 2023 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
The key risk areas overseen by each Board committee are included below.
Board of Directors Overall accountability of Allstate's enterprise risk and return management;
reviews at least twice a year
Compensation and Nominating, Governance
Risk and Return
Audit Committee Human Capital and Social Responsibility
Committee
Committee Committee
Reviews risk and return at Reviews risk at least four Reviews risk and return at Reviews risk as needed
least five times annually times annually least once annually
• Oversees the effectiveness of • Oversees Allstate’s internal • Oversees executive • Oversees director elections
Allstate’s ERRM framework, controls related to key risks compensation programs and corporate governance
governance structure and and the major financial risk (including the design, practices to ensure they
decision making exposures performance measures and appropriately align with
– Reviewed through a – Reported through a ranges in incentive plans) Allstate’s risk and return
quarterly risk summary semi-annual risk control – Includes a review of principles
report that identifies key dashboard the chief risk officer’s • Considers Board composition
risks, measurement of the • Reviews risk factors included assessment of incentive on an ongoing basis
risk profile, and alignment in the Form 10-K compensation programs to ensure the Board is
with risk and return • Reviewed the risk framework • Reviewed progress on composed of directors with
principles and internal audit approach Transformative Growth skills and experiences that fit
– Includes a review of related to Transformative and the IDE strategy and the company’s business and
the chief risk officer’s Growth determined impact on the strategies
assessment of strategic annual incentive program • Oversees the company’s
• The chief risk officer attends
and operating plans all meetings • Oversees talent development significant ESG topics and
• Reviews regulatory Own Risk and senior executive its political contributions and
and Solvency Assessment • Reviews the independence succession planning to activities
and performance of the
(“ORSA”) report ensure they appropriately – Reviewed the priorities
company’s registered public
• Reviews Allstate’s culture accounting firm on an annual align with Allstate’s risk and and reporting related to
return principles Allstate’s ESG strategy and
• The audit committee chair is basis
a risk and return committee • The chief audit executive • Oversight responsibilities progress
member to enhance cross- attends all meetings and has related to human capital – Includes a review of
committee communication regular executive sessions management, including the chief risk officer’s
IDE, recruitment, leadership assessment of political
• The chief risk officer attends with the committee
and development, turnover, activities and a periodic
all meetings and has regular • The risk and return retention, organizational review of a report on ESG
e co xe m c m ut i i t v t e e e sessions with the c c o o m m m m i i t t t t e e e e c m h e a m ir b is e a r n to a udit health and pay equity • Recommended election of
• Reviewed organizational new director who brings
• The chief audit executive enhance cross-committee
transformation strategy specific skills and experience
attends all meetings communication
• Reviews risk factors included • Conducts quarterly reviews
in the Form 10-K, including to oversee the efficacy of
risks related to climate cybersecurity risk initiatives
change and severe weather and related policies and
• Assessed risks associated procedures
with special topics, including – Utilizes an external,
economic capital, inflation, independent cybersecurity
and climate change advisor
REPORTS FROM REPORTS FROM REPORTS FROM REPORTS FROM
• Chief risk officer • Chief risk officer • Independent • External governance
• Chief financial officer • Chief financial officer compensation advisor
• Chief audit executive • Chief audit executive consultant • Chairs of ESG Steering
• Chief human resources Committee
• Other internal subject • Chief information
officer • Chief risk officer
matter experts security officer
• Chief inclusive diversity • Other internal subject
• External, independent
and equity officer matter experts
cybersecurity advisor
• Chief risk officer
• Other outside expertswww.allstateproxy.com 41
Corporate Governance
4
Board Accountability
Shareholder Engagement
Allstate proactively engages with significant shareholders throughout the year. Dialogue, transparency and
responsiveness are the cornerstones of our shareholder engagement program.
How We Engage
Direct engagement involves reaching out to Allstate’s largest shareholders multiple times throughout the year. We also
engage with proxy and other investor advisory firms that represent the interests of various shareholders.
Discussions with shareholders may include Allstate’s Lead Director, Chair/CEO, chair of the compensation and human
capital committee and other committee chairs or directors as necessary.
In 2022, Allstate engaged with shareholders representing approximately 36% of outstanding shares and provided
opportunity for more robust dialogue and greater feedback, which was discussed at subsequent Board and committee
meetings.
Four-Phase Engagement Cycle
Balanced-Transparent-Responsive
June-December January-March
After Annual Meeting Before Annual Meeting
• Discuss responses to vote results • Discuss shareholder proposals with
and new topics of interest for the proponents, on case-by-case basis.
upcoming year. • Incorporate feedback from shareholder
• Discuss governance and compensation discussions into proxy statement and
issues and potential responses. other disclosures.
• Discuss ESG trends and
investor expectations.
• Shareholders vote on ballot items.
• Provides forum for direct engagement
among Board members, senior management, • Follow up on previous conversations
and shareholders. and discuss final Board decisions
• A virtual annual meeting format provides advantages and reasoning.
such as allowing Allstate to reach a broader base of • Review vote proposals and solicit
shareholders that is not limited to just those who can support for Board recommendations.
travel, shareholders to submit questions both before
and during the meeting, and a longer meeting time
to address more shareholder questions.
May April-May
Annual Meeting of Shareholders During Shareholder Voting
This input is reported to the nominating, governance and social responsibility committee, which in turn allocates specific
issues to relevant Board committees for further consideration. Each Board committee reviews relevant feedback and
determines if additional discussion or actions are necessary by the respective committee or full Board.42 2023 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Shareholder Feedback Is Integrated Into Board Discussions and Decisions
WHAT WE HEARD DURING 2022
ENGAGEMENT WHAT WE HAVE DONE IN RESPONSE
Strategy. Allstate is successfully implementing a comprehensive auto insurance
Investors want to understand how profit improvement plan as loss cost inflation has reduced margins.
inflation has affected strategy and Increased Board time was spent overseeing management's actions to
results. improve profitability.
Investors believe that company boards
The company’s progress on Transformative Growth was discussed at
and management should be focused on
every Board meeting.
strategies that most lead to sustained
value creation. A Societal Engagement Framework is used to evaluate, prepare and
communicate Allstate’s participation on issues that drive sustainable
value creation, including goals that are directly tied to our business
strategy and Our Shared Purpose.
Environment. Climate-related disclosures in the proxy statement were expanded.
Investors want expanded disclosures on Allstate's TCFD report was enhanced to incorporate the goal-setting
climate risk exposure and opportunities work that is underway. An Environmental, Social and Governance
to mitigate risk. Summary Report was published which further describes climate goals.
Investors increasingly expect
Allstate announced its commitment to achieve net zero emissions for
companies to develop net zero
direct, indirect and value-chain greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. By
commitments.
the end of 2025, Allstate will establish a goal for financed emissions.
Climate strategy and risk was reviewed with the Board over multiple
meetings.
Human Capital. The company is using analytics to align skills to highest priority issues,
Investors want to understand how focus talent development and deploy talent efficiently to further
companies are addressing employee enable the Transformative Growth strategy.
turnover and encouraging employee
Allstate is executing a comprehensive multi-year Inclusive Diversity
retention and development.
and Equity strategy to accelerate the pace of change for diversity
While investors are supportive of
across the enterprise.
diversity and inclusion metrics in
compensation programs, they want to An Inclusive Diversity and Equity component was integrated into the
ensure the metrics include criteria that annual incentive plan and includes specific, quantifiable goals that are
can be measured. reviewed by the Board.
Board Composition. Three new Board members were added within the last three years,
Investors are focused on whether each bringing specific experience and skills sets to help oversee the
companies have the right skills, key components of Allstate’s business strategy.
experience and diversity on
Director skills and capabilities were reviewed during the annual
boards to advance and oversee
evaluation process.
corporate strategy and related risks.
Allstate's Board has overall oversight of ESG and each committee has
Investors are interested in how
oversight ESG-related responsibilities clear responsibilities over specific areas of ESG. The Board receives
are effectively covered among Board updates at each regular meeting.
committees.
Strong Governance Practices Enhance Shareholder Rights
Allstate has also enhanced its governance practices over time to serve the best interests of its shareholders. Shareholder
rights include annual election of directors with a majority vote standard, proxy access rights, no shareholder rights plan
(“poison pill”), no supermajority vote provisions, confidential voting, and right to call a special meeting and request action by
written consent.www.allstateproxy.com 43
Corporate Governance
Stakeholder Input and Responsiveness
Allstate continually seeks stakeholder input to meet its obligation as a corporate citizen. In addition to shareholders,
we regularly engage with customers and consumers, employees, Allstate agents, nongovernmental organizations, opinion
leaders, policymakers and suppliers. Feedback is collected across these stakeholder groups, key topics are identified, and
strategies are developed to address gaps. There are also stakeholder-specific avenues for engagement.
Allstate partners
We survey with The RepTrak Shareholders,
Non-governmental
customers, Co., a global shareholder
organizations and
consumers, research firm, advisors/agents
policymakers are
Allstate agents to study how and opinion leaders
surveyed every
and employees stakeholders are surveyed
two years
every quarter perceive each year
the company
Allstate focuses on serving customers, generating attractive shareholder returns, providing opportunities to
employees and agents, and improving communities
Allstate’s Societal Engagement Framework
We use a Societal Engagement Framework to evaluate, prepare and Allstate’s participation is segmented
communicate to stakeholders Allstate’s participation in societal issues. into three response categories:
Criteria to Evaluate Potential Societal Issues
Lead
Strongly aligns with criteria; unique
Values ability to address through action with
• Advances Our Shared Purpose manageable risk
• Empower customers with protection • Take strong position across
stakeholders that positions Allstate
• Serve customers, returns for shareholders, opportunity for
as a leader
teams, improve communities
• Aligns with our values (integrity, IDE, collective success)
Support
Partially aligns with criteria; some
Business
ability to impact with manageable to
• Impacts customer value proposition
moderate risk
• Relevant expertise
• Communicate to stakeholders as
• Agency and ability to drive change
appropriate
• Opportunity and risk
Lead Support or Low Support/Low Engagement
Issues in the Lead Engagement Limited alignment with criteria;
category are strongly Allstate evaluated over moderate to high risk and negligible
aligned with the criteria opportunity benefit
100 potential issues,
which fall in the Support
• Do not take public position, but
continue to monitor and assess
or Low Engagement
response category
Three societal issues are in the Lead category: Climate, Data
Privacy and EquityCorporate Governance
44 2023 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
More Information
You can learn more about Allstate’s corporate governance by visiting www.allstateinvestors.com, where you will find our
Corporate Governance Guidelines, each standing committee charter, and Director Independence Standards. Allstate
has adopted a comprehensive Global Code of Business Conduct that applies to the CEO, CFO, controller, and other
senior financial and executive officers, as well as the Board of Directors and other employees. It is also available at
www.allstateinvestors.com. Each of the above documents is available in print upon written request to the Office of the
Secretary, The Allstate Corporation, 3100 Sanders Road, Northbrook, IL 60062, or by email request to invrel@allstate.com.
Communication with the Board
The Board has established a process to facilitate communication by
The Allstate Board welcomes your
shareholders and other interested parties with directors as a group.
input on compensation, governance,
The chief legal officer and general counsel reports regularly to the
and other matters.
nominating, governance and social responsibility committee on all
correspondence received that, in her opinion, involves functions of
directors@allstate.com
the Board or its committees or that merits Board attention. Items that
are unrelated to the duties and responsibilities of the Board are not
The Allstate Corporation,
forwarded, such as: business solicitations or advertisements; product
Nominating, Governance and
related inquiries; junk mail or mass mailings; resumes or other job-
Social Responsibility Committee,
related inquiries; or spam and overtly hostile, threatening, potentially
3100 Sanders Road, Northbrook,
illegal or similarly unsuitable communications. Activity on social media
IL 60062, c/o General Counsel
is also monitored and reported to the nominating, governance and
social responsibility committee.
In addition, the audit committee has established procedures for the
receipt, retention, and treatment of any complaints about accounting, internal accounting controls, or auditing matters. To
report any issue relating to The Allstate Corporation (including Allstate Insurance Company and its affiliates) accounting,
accounting controls, financial reporting or auditing practices, you may contact the company by mail, telephone or email.
Telephone contacts may be kept confidential at your request.
By mail: By phone: By email:
The Allstate Corporation, Allstate i-Report Line: 1-800-706-9855 auditcommittee2@allstate.com
Audit Committee
3100 Sanders Road, Northbrook, IL
60062 c/o General Counsel
The communication process and the methods to communicate with directors are posted on the “Governance Overview”
section of www.allstateinvestors.com.www.allstateproxy.com 45
Corporate Governance
5
Board Structure
Board Leadership
Currently, our Board leadership structure consists of an independent Lead Director, a Chair (who is also our CEO) and strong committee
chairs. The Board believes that this structure provides independent Board leadership and engagement while providing the benefit of
having our CEO, the individual with primary responsibility for managing the company’s day-to-day operations, chair regular Board meetings
as key business and strategic issues are discussed.
The independent directors have the ability to separate the roles of Chair and CEO if it is in the best interests of Allstate and its
shareholders, and did so during a CEO transition in 2007. When making this determination, the independent directors consider the
recommendation of the nominating, governance and social responsibility committee, the current circumstances at Allstate, skills and
experience of the individuals involved, and leadership composition of the Board.
The Board regularly reviews its leadership structure and thoroughly evaluated whether to combine or to split the chair and CEO roles.
The independent directors have determined Allstate is well served by having Mr. Wilson hold the roles of Chair and CEO. Mr. Wilson
has more than 28 years of insurance industry experience, has extensive company knowledge, has demonstrated successful leadership
of external boards and provides excellent leadership and direction for both management and the Board. He is highly qualified to lead
discussions of the Board and is in the best position to facilitate the flow of business information and communications between the Board
and management. The Board has strong independent oversight with Allstate’s independent Lead Director and directors being
independent. The Board evaluates this structure annually.
Independent Lead Director
Allstate’s Board believes that a strong Lead Director role with clearly defined responsibilities provides an effective independent
management oversight. A strong Lead Director role has been in place for over twelve years and the roles and responsibilities have been
enhanced over time based on shareholder and other feedback. Allstate’s Corporate Governance Guidelines describe the responsibilities of
the Lead Director and the selection process, including the characteristics that the Board considers important in a Lead Director.
The Lead Director is elected annually by the independent directors, and it is expected that the Lead Director serve three to five years.
Gregg Sherrill Independent Lead Director Responsibilities
Current Lead Director
Board Meetings and Communication Between Chair
Executive Sessions and Independent Directors
Mr. Sherrill was named independent Lead Director in
• Has the authority to call meetings of • Serves as liaison between the Chair
May 2021. As a director at Allstate since 2017, Mr. Sherrill
the independent directors and independent directors
has served on the audit and nominating, governance and
social responsibility committees. During his tenure on • Approves meeting agendas and • Consults with the Chair and discusses
Allstate’s Board, he has cultivated an expansive knowledge schedules and information sent to the items raised in executive sessions
of Allstate through transformative growth, strategic Board to ensure there is sufficient time Communication with
advances, operational and organizational changes, and an for discussion of all items and that Shareholders
evolving external environment. His leadership, knowledge directors have the information necessary • Communicates with significant
and experience balances the perspectives of both the to perform their duties shareholders and other stakeholders
longer-tenured Board members and newer directors. • Chairs executive sessions of on matters involving broad
independent directors at every
corporate policies and practices,
Board meeting
Considerations in Selecting Current Lead when appropriate
• Presides at all Board meetings when
Director the Chair is not present Committee Involvement
• Works with the Chair and committee
The independent directors consider several factors,
Duties to the Board chairs to ensure coordinated coverage
including the director’s corporate governance expertise,
• Has regular communications with of Board responsibilities and ensures
operational and leadership experience, board service and
the CEO about Allstate’s strategy effective functioning of all committees
tenure, integrity, and ability to meet the required time
commitment. It is preferable that the Lead Director hold and performance • Ensures the implementation of a
a previous position as chair of a board committee, either • Performs additional duties designated committee self-evaluation process
at Allstate or another company. In 2021, Mr. Sherrill was by the independent directors and regular committee reports to
chosen by the independent directors as he exemplified CEO Performance Evaluation the Board
these characteristics. He has significant board leadership • Facilitates and communicates the Board and Individual
experience, including as former chairman of Tenneco Board’s performance evaluation of Director Evaluations
and former chair of the organization and executive the Chair and CEO with the chair • Participates in the evaluation of
compensation committee of Snap-On. The independent of the compensation and human individual director, Board and
directors believe that Mr. Sherrill is exceptionally well- capital committee committee performance with the chair
qualified to serve as Allstate’s independent lead director. Succession Plans of the nominating, governance and
• Facilitates the development of a social responsibility committee and
succession plan for the Chair and CEO the Chair46 2023 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Allstate's Chair and CEO provides excellent leadership and direction for both management and the Board. The Lead
Director is empowered with and exercises, robust, well-defined duties. The Board is composed of experienced and
committed independent directors that provide objective independent Board leadership and effectively engage and oversee
management. The Board committees have objective, experienced chairs and members.
Chair of the Board
Purpose: Serves as the primary voice to articulate Allstate's long-term strategic priorities, performance and operating
results, as well as ensures management is effectively providing the proper information and analysis to the Board
to facilitate effective oversight. Significant dialogue with stakeholders on governance, strategy and operating
performance facilitates Board effectiveness.
Independent Lead Director
Purpose: Serves as a liaison between the Chair and the independent directors to provide a supplemental channel of
communication. Collaborates with Chair/CEO on Board meeting agendas, effectiveness, planning matters, and other
related topics of management oversight.
Board of Directors
Purpose: Provide objective oversight of management, review the CEO’s performance and succession planning, and
approve CEO compensation. Oversee Allstate's strategy, operating performance, and sustainable value creation.
Audit Committee Compensation and Nominating, Governance Risk and Return
Human Capital and Social Responsibility Committee
Committee Committee
Purpose: Assists the Purpose: Assists the Board Purpose: Assists the Board Purpose: Assists the Board
Board in fulfilling its in fulfilling its oversight in fulfilling its oversight in fulfilling its oversight
oversight responsibilities responsibilities related to responsibilities related to responsibilities related
related to the integrity of the compensation of the director elections, committee to the identification,
the company's financial CEO and the selection composition, identification of evaluation and mitigation
statements, enterprise and compensation of the director candidates, director of risks inherent in the
risk, ethics and compliance other executive officers, evaluation processes and company’s business,
programs, internal audit and administration of the results, environmental, social strategy, capital structure,
internal control functions company's compensation and governance priorities, and operating plans.
and independent registered plans and review of the and other corporate
public accountant. company's human capital governance matters and
practices. policies.
Executive Committee
The Board has an Executive Committee made up of the Lead Director, committee chairs and Board Chair. The Executive Committee is
chaired by Mr. Wilson and has the powers of the Board in the management of Allstate’s business affairs to the extent permitted under
the bylaws, excluding any powers granted by the Board to any other committee of the Board. In addition, the Executive Committee
provides Board oversight if outside the scope of established committees or if an accelerated process is necessary. No meetings of
the Executive Committee were necessary in 2022.www.allstateproxy.com 47
Corporate Governance
The Allstate Corporation Board of Directors
Meetings in 2022: 6 Highly Independent Board
• The company’s progress on the Transformative Eleven out of twelve directors on the Board are
Growth strategy was discussed at every Board independent. Each director has input into Board and
meeting, including three days in October to focus committee meeting schedules, agendas and materials. In
on strategy. addition, directors are provided opportunities throughout
Gregg Sherrill,
Independent • The Board discussed Allstate’s environmental, the year for independent discussion and reflection. The
Lead Director social and governance strategy and progress at directors hold executive sessions without management
multiple meetings, including climate strategy. present at every regular Board and committee meeting.
• Succession planning and inclusive diversity and
Management Participation in
equity were each discussed at multiple meetings.
Committee Meetings
Robust Role for Independent Committee Key members of management regularly attend and
Chairs participate in Board meetings. Regular attendees include
the CEO, CFO, chief legal officer and general counsel,
Thomas J. Wilson, Each of the committee chairs approves meeting
presidents of Property-Liability, Protection Services, and
Chair agendas and reviews committee materials. Prior
Investments and corporate strategy, and chief risk officer.
to each meeting, each committee chair has a
Other senior leaders attend as meeting topics warrant. In
conversation with the Board Chair and CEO and
addition, senior leadership also participates in committee
relevant operating executives. The committee
meetings.
chairs discuss meeting materials and agendas
in advance of each meeting, which fosters “Over the past year, we discussed Transformative Growth
independence and successful execution of each progress and other key strategic priorities at every
committee’s responsibilities. meeting. We reviewed key senior leadership changes
and oversaw the implementation of a comprehensive
three-year strategy to accelerate the pace of change
for diversity across the enterprise. We also added a new
Board member who brings valuable skills and experience
to further support oversight of Allstate’s strategic
initiatives.”
— Gregg M. Sherrill, Independent Lead Director
Use of Independent Advisors
Each committee operates under a written charter and has the ability to hire third-party advisors. Outside experts such as
independent auditors, compensation consultants, governance specialists, cybersecurity experts, board search firm representatives,
and financial advisors attend meetings to provide directors with additional information on issues.
In 2022, outside firms were engaged to provide independent assessments of Allstate’s compensation practices, financial results,
Board composition, pay equity practices and cybersecurity program.
99%
Average attendance of directors as a group at Board and
committee meetings during 2022
Board Attendance
33
Board and committee meetings in 2022
Directors are expected to attend Board and committee meetings and the annual meeting of shareholders. During 2022,
each director attended at least 75% of the combined Board meetings and meetings of committees of which he or she was
a member. Ten of the eleven directors who stood for election at the 2022 annual meeting of shareholders attended the
annual meeting. One director was unable to attend due to a prior professional obligation.48 2023 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
A
Key Responsibilities:
Audit • Oversees integrity of financial statements and other financial information and disclosures
Committee • Oversees the system of internal control over accounting and financial reporting and disclosure
controls and procedures
Report, pg. 111
• Reviews the enterprise risk control assessment and guidelines, including cybersecurity and
Meetings in 2022: 9 data privacy risk and the major financial risk exposures and management’s steps to monitor
and control those risks
• Oversees the ethics and compliance program and compliance with legal and regulatory
requirements
• Appoints, retains, and oversees the independent registered public accountant, and evaluates
its qualifications, performance and independence
• Evaluates retaining an independent cybersecurity advisor
Chair: Kermit R. • Oversees Allstate’s internal audit function
Crawford • Oversees Allstate’s data privacy programs
• Has authority to engage independent counsel and other advisors to carry out its duties
Other Members:
Donald E. Brown
Siddharth N. Mehta
Management Participation in Committee Meetings
Jacques Perold
The CFO, chief audit executive, chief compliance executive, chief risk officer, CEO, chief legal officer
“We discussed internal audit and general counsel, and controller all actively participate in meetings. Senior business unit and
advisory engagements on technology executives, including the chief information security officer, are present when appropriate.
Transformative Growth initiatives Executive sessions of the committee, in which the committee meets privately with the independent
and reviewed internal controls
registered public accountant, independent cybersecurity advisor, chief audit executive, and chief
and compliance. Data privacy and
compliance executive, are held at all regular meetings.
cybersecurity continued to be
areas of focus and we engaged an
Independence and Audit Committee Financial Expert
independent cybersecurity advisor
for the seventh year in a row.” The Board determined that all members of the audit committee are independent under the New York
Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) and Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) requirements, and that
— Kermit R. Crawford, Chair
Messrs. Brown and Mehta are each an audit committee financial expert as defined under SEC rules.
C
Key Responsibilities:
Compensation and • Oversees Allstate’s executive compensation plans
Human Capital • Selects and retains the committee’s independent compensation consultant
• Assists the Board in determining all compensation elements of the executive officers,
Committee
including the CEO
Report, pg. 86 • Reviews the Compensation Discussion and Analysis and prepares the Compensation
Committee Report in this proxy statement
Meetings in 2022: 7
• Reviews management succession plans, evaluation processes and organizational strength
• Conducts an annual review of the company’s human capital management practices,
organizational health, employee and agent survey data, company culture, diversity and
inclusiveness, and pay equity
• Reviews CEO’s performance in light of approved goals and objectives
Chair: Perry M.
Traquina Management Participation in Committee Meetings
Other Members: The chief human resources officer, chief legal officer and general counsel, CFO, and CEO participate in
Richard T. Hume meetings. The committee regularly meets in executive sessions with the independent compensation
consultant or chief human resources officer.
Margaret M. Keane
Andrea Redmond
• The chief human resources officer provides the committee with internal and external analyses of
Judith A. Sprieser
the structure of compensation programs. Throughout the year, the estimated and actual results
under our incentive compensation plans are reviewed.
“We discussed Allstate’s
human capital practices and • The CFO discusses financial results relevant to incentive compensation, other financial measures,
organizational health, including and accounting rules.
progress against the three- • The CEO advises on the alignment of incentive plan performance measures with strategy and the
year IDE strategy. We once design of equity incentive awards. He also provides the committee with performance evaluations of
again received an independent senior executives and recommends merit increases and compensation awards.
assessment of pay equity.” • The chief legal officer and general counsel provides input on the legal and regulatory environment
— Perry M. Traquina, Chair and corporate governance best practices and ensures the proxy materials accurately reflect the
committee’s actions.
• The chief risk officer reports annually on compensation plan alignment with Board-approved risk
and return principles, and whether compensation outcomes were achieved within those principles.www.allstateproxy.com 49
Corporate Governance
N
Key Responsibilities:
Nominating, • Recommends candidates for Board election and nominees for Board committees
Governance and • Recommends candidates for Lead Director and Chair
• Recommends criteria for selecting directors and the Lead Director, and determines director
Social Responsibility
independence
Committee • Reviews the Corporate Governance Guidelines and advises the Board on corporate
governance issues
Meetings in 2022: 5 • Determines performance criteria and oversees the performance assessment of the Board,
Board committees, and Lead Director
• Reviews Allstate’s non-employee director compensation program
• Has authority to retain a director search firm and director compensation consultant
• Reviews priorities and reporting related to Allstate’s ESG activities, including political
contributions and sustainability initiatives
Chair: Andrea Redmond
Other Members: Management Participation in Committee Meetings
Donald E. Brown
The CEO and chief legal officer and general counsel participate in meetings. The committee
Margaret M. Keane
regularly meets in executive session without management present. The chief risk officer provides
Gregg M. Sherrill
risk assessments on political contributions and activities. The chief legal officer and general counsel
provides regular updates to the committee on ESG priorities.
“We continued our focus on
the company’s ESG initiatives
and reporting frameworks and
reviewed the Societal Engagement
Framework to ensure effective
communication of Allstate’s
participation on key issues
important to our stakeholders.”
— Andrea Redmond, Chair
R
Key Responsibilities:
Risk and Return • Assists the Board in risk and return governance and oversight
Committee • Reviews risk and return processes, policies, and guidelines used by management to evaluate,
monitor, and manage enterprise risk and return
Meetings in 2022: 6 • Reviews Allstate’s enterprise risk and return management function, including its performance,
organization, practices, budgeting, and staffing
• Supports the audit committee in its oversight of risk assessment and management policies
• Has authority to retain outside advisors to assist in its duties
• Reviews extremely low frequency high severity scenarios (“ELFS”) on an annual basis,
including a periodic review of ELFS related to climate and weather-related risks
Chair: Siddharth
N. Mehta Management Participation in Committee Meetings
Other Members: The chief risk officer, CFO, CEO, chief legal officer and general counsel, chief audit executive, chief
Kermit R. Crawford technology officer and chief information security officer participate in meetings. The committee
Richard T. Hume regularly meets in executive session, including sessions with the chief risk officer.
Jacques Perold
Judith A. Sprieser
Perry M. Traquina
“In 2022, we reviewed significant
risk and return assumptions on
Allstate’s strategic plans, including
risks related to Transformative
Growth, climate change,
inflationary impacts and pricing
regulation. We assessed the
company’s information security
and data privacy practices to
reduce exposure risk to customer
information and meet consumer
expectations.”
— Siddharth N. Mehta, Chair50 2023 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
Director Compensation
Director Compensation Program
The director compensation program is designed to appropriately compensate non-employee directors for serving on the
board of a large, complex, and highly regulated company and to align their interests with shareholders. The nominating,
governance and social responsibility committee reviews non-employee director compensation annually. The following
charts describe each component of our non-employee director compensation program for 2022.
NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR ADDITIONAL ANNUAL CASH RETAINERS(1)
42% 58%
$125,000 $175,000 $50,000 $30,000
Annual Annual Equity(2) Lead Director Compensation and Human
Cash Capital Committee Chair
Retainer(1)
$35,000 $20,000
Audit Committee Chair and Nominating, Governance
Risk and Return Committee Chair and Social Responsibility
Committee Chair
(1) Paid quarterly in advance on the first business day of January, April, July, and October. The retainer is prorated for a director who joins the Board
during a quarter. Beginning in 2023, the additional annual cash retainer paid to the chair of the nominating, governance and social responsibility committee
has been increased to $25,000.
(2) Directors are granted restricted stock units on June 1 equal in value to $175,000 divided by the closing price of a share of Allstate common stock on such
grant date, rounded up to the nearest whole share.
Director Equity Compensation Further Director Compensation Highlights
• The Board believes that a meaningful portion of a • Director total compensation, Lead Director and
director’s compensation should be in the form of committee chair retainers, and equity grant practices are
equity securities to create alignment with corporate all benchmarked annually against insurance industry peer
performance and shareholder interests. group and relevant compensation surveys to target total
• Annual restricted stock units are granted under a fixed- compensation at the median.
value formula and in accordance with the shareholder • No additional fees are paid for Board or committee
approved 2017 Equity Compensation Plan for Non- meeting attendance.
Employee Directors. The aggregate grant date fair value
of any award during a calendar year may not exceed
$800,000.
Director Stock Ownership Guidelines
Each director is expected, within five years of joining the Board or within five years of an increase in annual cash retainer, if
applicable, to accumulate an ownership position in Allstate common stock equal to six times the value of the cash retainer.
Allstate’s stock ownership requirements specify that Allstate shares owned personally and beneficially, as well as unvested
restricted stock units, count toward meeting the requirement.
Each director has met the ownership guideline, except for Messrs. Brown and Hume, who joined the Board in 2020, and
Ms. Turner, who joined the Board in 2023.
What’s New
Based on consultation with the independent compensation consultant and a competitive review of Allstate’s non-employee
director compensation program, beginning in 2022, the equity portion of director compensation was increased from $155,000 to
$175,000. Additionally, in light of increased focus on ESG matters, beginning in 2023, the additional annual cash retainer paid to
the chair of the nominating, governance and social responsibility committee has been increased to $25,000.www.allstateproxy.com 51
Corporate Governance
2022 Director Compensation
The following table summarizes the compensation for each of our non-employee directors who served as a member of the
Board and its committees in 2022.
Fees Earned or
Paid in Cash Stock Awards Total
Name Leadership Roles Held During 2022 ($)(1) ($)(2)(3) ($)
Donald E. Brown 125,000 175,110 300,110
Kermit R. Crawford Audit Committee Chair 160,000 175,110 335,110
Michael L. Eskew (retired in May 2022) 62,500 - 62,500
Richard T. Hume 125,000 175,110 300,110
Margaret M. Keane 125,000 175,110 300,110
Siddharth N. Mehta Risk and Return Committee Chair 160,000 175,110 335,110
Jacques P. Perold 125,000 175,110 300,110
Andrea Redmond Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility 145,000 175,110 320,110
Committee Chair
Gregg M. Sherrill Lead Director 175,000 175,110 350,110
Judith A. Sprieser 125,000 175,110 300,110
Perry M. Traquina Compensation and Human Capital Committee Chair 155,000 175,110 330,110
(1) Under the 2017 Equity Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, directors may elect to receive Allstate common stock in lieu of cash compensation.
In 2022, Ms. Keane and Messrs. Brown and Traquina each elected to receive 100% of their retainer in stock. Also, under Allstate’s Deferred Compensation
Plan for Non-Employee Directors, directors may elect to defer their retainers to an account that is credited or debited, as applicable, based on (a) the fair
market value of, and dividends paid on, Allstate common shares (common share units); (b) an average interest rate calculated on 90-day dealer commercial
paper; (c) S&P 500 Index, with dividends reinvested; or (d) a money market fund. No director has voting or investment powers in common share units, which
are payable solely in cash. Subject to certain restrictions, amounts deferred under the plan, together with earnings thereon, may be transferred between
accounts and are distributed after the director leaves the Board in a lump sum or over a period not in excess of ten years in accordance with the director’s
instructions. The accumulated amount of Allstate common share units as of December 30, 2022, for directors previously electing to defer their cash
retainer, is reflected in the table below.
Allstate Common Share Units
Amounts Deferred under Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (#)
Mr. Traquina 7,138
(2) Grant date fair value for restricted stock units granted in 2022 is based on the final closing price of Allstate common stock on the actual grant date, which
in part also reflects the payment of expected future dividend equivalent rights. (See Note 19 to our audited financial statements for 2022). The final grant
date closing price was $134.70. The values were computed in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification
Topic 718. Each restricted stock unit entitles the director to receive one share of Allstate common stock on the conversion date (see footnote 3).
(3) The following table provides outstanding restricted stock units as of December 30, 2022, for each director, except for Ms. Turner, who did not join the Board
until January 2023. The value of the restricted stock units is based on the closing price of our common stock of $135.60 on December 30, 2022.
Value of Restricted
Restricted Stock Units as of
Stock Units 12/31/22 Multiple of Annual
Name (#) ($) Cash Retainer
Mr. Brown 3,443 466,871 4.8
Mr. Crawford 20,330 2,756,748 23.1
Mr. Eskew (retired in May 2022) 2,225 301,710 2.4
Mr. Hume 3,909 530,060 4.2
Ms. Keane 3,989 540,908 14.5
Mr. Mehta 13,533 1,835,075 18.2
Mr. Perold 12,454 1,688,762 13.5
Ms. Redmond 35,802 4,854,751 41.0
Mr. Sherrill 3,989 540,908 9.1
Ms. Sprieser 42,177 5,719,201 45.8
Mr. Traquina 11,013 1,493,363 14.2
Restricted stock unit awards granted before September 15, 2008, convert into common stock one year after termination of Board service. Restricted stock
unit awards granted on or after September 15, 2008, and before June 1, 2016, convert into common stock upon termination of Board service. Restricted stock
units granted on or after June 1, 2016, convert into common stock on the earlier of the third anniversary of the date of grant or upon termination of Board
service. Directors had the option to defer the conversion of the restricted stock units granted on June 1, 2016, for ten years from the date of grant or the
later of termination of Board service or June 1, 2024. The conversion of restricted stock units granted after June 1, 2016, may be deferred for ten years or until
termination of Board service. In addition to the conversion periods described above, restricted stock units will convert upon death or disability. Each restricted
stock unit includes a dividend equivalent right that entitles the director to receive a payment equal to regular cash dividends paid on Allstate common stock.52
Sustainability at Allstate
Sustainability at Allstate means managing environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) risks and
opportunities to ensure long-term value creation for our shareholders, customers and employees.
Sustainability is not new to Allstate and we have been leading with purpose and driving growth
through our ESG ambition for decades. We integrate ESG considerations across the enterprise
by embedding these principles into key efforts like the development of products and services,
management of the company's investment portfolio and establishing net zero targets.
Our ESG Strategy and risk and return profile. Three ESG focus areas have
been identified as most significant to Allstate and its
ESG issues are fundamentally connected to Allstate's stakeholders: Climate, Data Privacy, and Inclusive Diversity.
business and providing products and services that
are accessible, competitively priced, and mindful of Allstate’s ESG ambition is also centered around its strong
environmental and social impacts are important to our sustainability performance. The company has a solid
strategy. A Societal Engagement Framework is used to track record of corporate sustainability disclosure in
focus on the prioritization of ESG issues and to help us alignment with relevant ESG reporting organizations and
evaluate, prepare for and act on issues where we have a standards such as the Global Reporting Index (GRI), CDP
unique ability to make meaningful impact. This framework (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project), S&P’s Corporate
allows us to align our values, business priorities and Sustainability Assessment (CSA), Sustainability Accounting
ESG actions. We further prioritize our efforts on ESG Standards Board (SASB) and Task Force on Climate
matters that are strongly aligned to our brand, business Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
We have Climate change impacts customers and shareholders. Customers have been
prioritized three increasingly subject to more severe weather catastrophes. As a result, Allstate focuses
on stronger building codes, adequate disaster response capabilities, and creating
ESG issues
state-based insurance pools for risks not covered by private markets. The company has
in particular:
net zero commitments and is seeking additional return by investing in a transition to a
Climate, Data lower-carbon economy.
Privacy, and
Data privacy protects customers and is a growth opportunity. Allstate's ability to
Inclusive serve customers and earn appropriate returns is dependent on access to personal
Diversity and information. An industry-leading data privacy program and commitment to influencing
public policy initiatives is critical to value creation.
Equity.
Inclusive diversity and equity (IDE) practices foster a workplace culture that
supports Our Shared Purpose. IDE is one of the three values in Our Shared Purpose.
The breadth of differences at Allstate improves execution and agility. A multi-year IDE
strategy positions the company to be a differentiated IDE leader.www.allstateproxy.com 53
Sustainability at Allstate
Our ESG strategy supports long-term value creation
Focusing on Our
Important Topics… …Leads to Value Creation
People We strive to develop and Diversity enables business growth. Our collective
retain a workforce that differences, backgrounds, educations and cultures create
mirrors the diversity of the an inclusive environment where diverse perspectives
customers and communities are encouraged and embraced. We work smarter, meet
we serve. To build on this customer needs more effectively, share learnings better,
focus, we launched an IDE and identify more innovative ideas when we utilize our
strategy with the goal to individual characteristics, backgrounds, experiences and
become a differentiated perspectives. The breadth of those differences makes us
IDE leader among major a stronger company, which in turn creates greater value
corporations by striving for stakeholders.
to eliminate inequities in
our business practices,
culture and communities for
all people.
Planet Climate change is one of Allstate’s business success depends on effectively
the most critical challenges modeling, pricing and managing climate-related risks, as
threatening customers, well as meeting the needs that result from a changing
businesses and communities. climate and a changing society. Products and services are
Global warming has being developed that address climate change and the
increased the frequency and transition to a lower-carbon future and are also growing
severity of severe weather. our suite of environmentally responsible products through
This creates additional the offering of ride-sharing, homeowner reimbursement,
risks for customers and pay-per-mile auto insurance and technology that allows
shareholders, but also offers customers to more efficiently file claims.
opportunities to leverage
Strategic climate-related investments present potential
Allstate’s capabilities.
opportunities to capture attractive returns over the
long-term for shareholders. Allstate will look to be a
leader in this area and is modifying investment strategies
and capabilities to best position to capture additional
risk-adjusted return from the transition to a lower
carbon-based economy.
Prosperity Because of the products By carefully and responsibly handling data, Allstate
and services we provide, maintains a strong reputation, fosters positive business
customers entrust Allstate relationships and creates shared value. Identity protection
with their data. Consumers products are provided to millions of customers and help
have an expectation of empower people with more control over their personal
privacy and security around data, which in turn builds trust in the Allstate name. Data
that data. This creates both and analytics are also used in the business to better
business opportunities and serve customers.
constraints as we work to
We believe, in the future, companies will need to adopt a
safeguard consumer data
simplified approach to data privacy with consumer-friendly
while using that data to
interactions and easy-to-read disclosures that follow a
better serve our customers.
common, standardized framework to enhance choice and
control for consumers. Allstate seeks to shape this future
via thought leadership, public advocacy, and the launch of
new capabilities that easily and automatically enable this
for consumers.54 2023 Proxy Statement
Sustainability at Allstate
Our Key ESG Priorities
People Our Human Capital Goals and Progress
Goals 2022 Progress
Regularly measure employee Achieved 81.6% engagement
Human Capital
sentiment and maintain a highly index score from Inspire
Allstate believes that its engaged workforce Survey in 2022
people are its greatest Create a people first workplace 2022 global turnover was
assets and enablers of a improving employability for all team 20%, with the November and
members December months finishing
purpose-driven strategy.
below a 15% annualized
The integration of ESG
number
principles in to human
Drive employee engagement, December 2022 was span
capital management is optimizing spans and layers to 7.3 (2023 target is 8.4);
key to success. We have a support organization health December 2022 layers was 11
(2023 is target 10)
robust set of plans, which
advance an approach to
hiring, retention, talent
Other Initiatives and Accomplishments
development, training,
• At the start of the pandemic, we transitioned 95% of our workforce
well-being and culture. to remote working in just one weekend and to date, we’ve invested
Allstate strives to motivate over $9 million to ensure our employees remain supported in a remote
environment.
its employees and harness
• Introduced a Customer Retention and Growth bonus of $2,000 to $4,000
their diverse perspectives
for over 30,000 eligible employees for achieving property-liability unit
through Our Shared Purpose
growth goals
and leading employment
• Resources are devoted to occupational health and safety and benefit
practices. We provide programs to support employees’ physical health, financial security,
employees with training, personal well-being and work-life integration
mentoring and career • To ensure fair and equitable compensation practices, internal and
external pay equity analyses are conducted annually
development, and invest
• Utilized workforce analytics to dynamically align skills to highest
in providing rewarding
priority issues, focus talent development and acquisition, and deploy
professional growth and
talent efficiently
opportunities. At the core
• Increased minimum compensation for U.S. employees to $17-20/hour,
of it all is an unwavering based on geographic differentials
commitment to shared
Values, Behaviors and
Operating Standards.www.allstateproxy.com 55
Sustainability at Allstate
Inclusive Diversity Pillars of IDE Strategy
and Equity
People
Inclusive diversity and
equity (“IDE”) is one of
Allstate will build a diverse staff through thoughtful and intentional recruitment, retention
Allstate’s core values and and development activities. We are committed to increasing female and racially and/or
ethnically diverse workforce representation and have set multi-year targets to achieve
a foundation of Our Shared
this goal. Allstate will also accelerate development, advancement, and retention of diverse
Purpose. It represents who talent through sponsorship, mentorship, and leadership development programs, and
we are and how we conduct strive to improve the skills and capabilities of all team members.
ourselves – not just as
Business Practices
employees, but as people,
leaders, decision-makers, Allstate will use IDE to help us win and integrate it into our core policies, processes and
decision-making, including choosing and managing our suppliers. Allstate was the first
and members of society.
U.S corporate issuer to select diverse financial firms to exclusively lead a large corporate
Allstate’s multi-year IDE
bond issuance.
strategy builds on existing
efforts around hiring, talent Culture
development, investing
Allstate will create an inclusive culture and advance equity. Allstate supports and funds
and supplier diversity. The
nine Employee Impact Groups (EIGs) and two Business Impact Groups (BIGs), that offer
strategy is focused on four specific opportunities for employees to partner and collaborate with each other through
pillars to leverage diverse professional development workshops, recruiting events, volunteer projects and mentoring.
Over 7,700 Allstaters participate in at least one EIG or BIG (as of 12/31/22). Group members
perspectives, experiences
are more likely to be rated Better Than Expected, more likely to be promoted, and less
and engagement for likely to turnover.
a more inclusive and
Community
equitable workforce.
Allstate will address our positive and negative impacts on inclusive diversity and
equity in wider communities and on various stakeholders, taking a leadership position
to advance IDE. In September 2022, Allstate was the only U.S. corporate issuer to
voluntarily testify before the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Diversity Equity
and Inclusion. The congressional hearing focused on Diversity and Inclusion at America’s
Largest Insurance Companies.
Our IDE Goals and Progress
Goals 2022 Progress
Expand IDE-related questions in Inspire Survey to measure Maintained inclusive diversity index scores (Inspire Survey) in
culture of employee belonging, equal opportunity regardless mid-80’s, on a scale of 0-100, from 2018-2022
of background, senior leadership commitment to addressing
inequity, and Allstate’s commitment to IDE as a company
Strive for $180 million in new commitments with diverse While 2022 was a difficult market environment for
investment sponsors and managers in 2022, nearly 3x historical commitments in general, Allstate continued to make
annual average progress. Including the $65 million closed in January 2023, we
have closed roughly $177 million in new commitments.
Increase female and racially and/or ethnically diverse workforce Maintained progress towards Allstate’s ongoing commitment
representation to improve female and racially and/or ethnically diverse
workforce representation
Achieve $366 million in spend in 2022 with diverse suppliers Allstate exceeded our 2022 goal with $386 million in spend,
on track toward our five-year 2025 goal of doubling diverse
supplier spend56 2023 Proxy Statement
Sustainability at Allstate
Planet Our 2022 Actions to Manage Climate Risk
Goals 2022 Progress
Climate Evaluate setting greenhouse gas Committed to achieve net
(GHG) emission reduction science- zero emissions for direct,
Climate change is one of aligned targets, including a new indirect and value-chain
the most critical challenges target for operating emissions greenhouse gas emissions
by 2030 and by 2025, will
of our time, as it threatens
establish a goal for financed
businesses, communities
emissions
and customers. Allstate is
Convert 100% of automobile fleet As of year-end 2022,
working to reduce climate
to hybrid vehicles by 2025, and Allstate's Legacy Fleet
impacts across the entire incorporate fully electric vehicles was 85% hybrid and the
value chain, which includes thereafter company's total fleet, which
includes Avail and National
supply chain, operations,
General vehicles, was 52%
and customer use of our
hybrid
products and services.
Achieve green or healthy building As of year-end 2022, Allstate
Allstate announced a target
certification for 100% of newly leased or owned more than
of net zero emissions for acquired buildings, beginning in 694,000 square feet of LEED-
relevant direct, indirect and 2023 certified space
value-chain greenhouse Discourage excess waste and As of 2022, Allstate has a
encourage recycling through waste removal request for
gas emissions by 2030, and
centralized waste collection at all proposals out that stipulates
by the end of 2025, we will
locations by 2023 vendors report on landfill,
also establish a goal for our recycling, compost, and
financed emissions. This diversion quantities
target is aligned with the
Other Initiatives and Accomplishments
latest climate science and
• Committed $469 million to climate investments in 2021 and 2022 in our
the 1.5°C reduction pathways
dedicated impact portfolio across climate mitigation and adaptation
called for by the Paris
• Increased the percentage of the portfolio allocated to responsible
Agreement. Additionally,
investments to 12% at year-end 2022
we will continue to evaluate
• Established management-level committee with goal to evaluate and
emerging methodologies develop new products or new product features that encourages more
associated with GHG sustainable consumer behavior
emissions from underwriting • Identified areas for value creation within risk management processes
given a global transition to a less carbon intensive economy
activities.www.allstateproxy.com 57
Sustainability at Allstate
Climate Risk Addressing Climate Risk
Management
Risk Identification
A changing climate means we must
identify risks and opportunities,
which can be either physical in • An increase in severe weather events has raised loss costs for homeowners
insurance, requiring risk management actions such as changes in pricing,
nature, such as extreme weather
product coverages, geography, underwriting practices and reinsurance
patterns, or related to transitions
utilization. We expect that the impacts from climate change will continue to
such as policy shifts and the
be concentrated in property insurance.
development of new technology.
• Allstate's investment process reflects some of the same climate risk
Allstate works to understand how
considerations as the company's insurance underwriting process. We
this directly and indirectly affects
consider potential environmental and severe weather risks when making
our products, assets and liabilities.
investments and limit our exposure to sectors with higher climate risk. We
We manage climate risks within
also monitor exposure to sectors with higher climate risk, including oil,
our integrated Enterprise Risk gas and coal production, airlines and airports, and commercial real estate
and Return Management (ERRM) with higher catastrophe risk. Additionally, ESG considerations and climate
Program, which applies risk-return specific metrics are a factor in asset management decisions.
principles, modeling and analytics, • Climate change is also important to internal and external stakeholders, and
governance and transparent we collaborate through external partnerships and public engagements.
dialogue to understand the
company’s highest-priority risks. Risk Assessments
• Allstate’s Catastrophe Modeling and Analytics team and pricing groups
assess climate change information and establish pricing, underwriting,
concentration and coverage standards. The team uses information from
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the U.S. Global
Change Research Program (USGCRP) and the Actuaries Climate Index (ACI).
The IPCC and USGCRP evaluate research by climate scientists around the
world and conduct reviews to provide information to decision-makers. The
Responsible Investing Committee and the Investments Risk Committee
assess investments for potential short- and long-term exposures to
climate change.
Risk Mitigation
• The ACI measures extreme weather and sea level increases through
quarterly updates. The Catastrophe Modeling and Analytics team
monitors state-specific risks and competitors’ actions and partners with
the Investments team to model mortgage and real estate portfolios.
We incorporate the outcome of the assessment into decision-making to
balance risk and return.
Risk Monitoring and Reporting
• Allstate reports on progress in mitigating climate change through our
annual sustainability, SASB and TCFD reports, as well as through alignment
to key frameworks such as GRI and the UN Sustainable Development
Goals. Additionally, we respond to questionnaires and assessments such
as CDP’s Climate Change Questionnaire and S&P’s Corporate Sustainability
Assessment.58 2023 Proxy Statement
Sustainability at Allstate
Prosperity Operational Practices and Products
• Allstate’s products and services protect Personally Identifiable Information with
Data Privacy
strong data management and cybersecurity practices and we have an industry-
leading data privacy program
Allstate’s business practices
• Allstate Identity Protection is reinventing privacy and identity protection by giving
protect data and keep consumers the tools to see, control and protect their digital identities
• Product offerings include identity protection and privacy management (Allstate Digital
sensitive information
FootprintTM on Allstate Mobile), and a third-party cyber product offering with mobile
safe. We provide identity device protection, anti-phishing, Wi-Fi scan, and limited cyber-expense coverage
protection products to
millions of customers and Governance
will continue to empower
people with more control • Allstate strives to be transparent and ethically manage consumer data
• Allstate also created an Enterprise Data initiative to reduce the personal information
over their personal data. Our
footprint across Allstate, which better protects and secures personal information
goals are to enact change, while still providing services that matter to consumers
• The Board and audit committee provide oversight of our cybersecurity and privacy
demonstrate transparency,
programs; an independent cybersecurity advisor and external benchmarking
offer solutions and lead practices further support continuous improvement
others to do the same
through four key avenues: Policy and Legislation
Operational Practices and
Products, Governance, • Allstate advocates for consumer rights and advocates for federal legislation to
establish uniform consumer data protection standards
Policy and Legislation, and
• Allstate advanced our State Privacy Laws program, a framework to strategically
Partnerships. approach consumer expectations of privacy and the dynamic regulatory environment
• Allstate also worked to identify lawmakers, think tanks, policy institutes, thought
leaders, and journalists aligned with the concept of greater consumer control over data
Partnerships
• We partner with organizations such as The Atlantic and the Aspen Institute to share
perspectives on enhancing data privacy protections
• Our security and privacy requirements extend to suppliers who have access to, store,
or use Allstate data and we emphasize the importance of consumer privacy and data
security with suppliers through our procurement standards, practices and contracts
• We also require contingent workers who have access to our network to complete
training on Allstate’s security policies and adhere to the privacy expectations
described in our Supplier Code of Business Conduct
2022 Goals and Progress
Goals 2022 Progress
Continue to enhance robust privacy compliance Piloted data ethics framework that helps address ethical considerations
programs to protect consumer data and enable agile throughout the data lifecycle. Implemented digital solution that triggers
response to dynamic regulatory environment personal information lifecycle management processes to support
compliance with dynamic regulatory requirements and reduce personal
information footprint.
Advance more choice, control, and protection for Allstate's Chair and CEO presented at the 2022 Aspen Ideas Festival on
consumers’ data outside of Allstate the cost of privacy in the digital age. The discussion sparked thought
leadership about what privacy means today and how consumers can
take control of their privacy and know when it has been lost.
Enhance potential and current customer experience Launched a privacy center on Allstate.com with simplified consumer-
with data privacy and related commercial experiences friendly messaging on Allstate’s privacy practices and easy to navigate
privacy choiceswww.allstateproxy.com 59
Sustainability at Allstate
Responsible
Investing – Broad Portfolio
Aligning with ESG
Build limitations/structure/analytics, as appropriate, into the portfolio that will
Priorities mitigate allocations that negatively impact our ESG goals
As of December 31, 2022, we
managed a $61.8 billion investment Goals 2022 Progress
portfolio and actively evaluated how Continue to increase the percentage The responsible investments in
ESG issues influence investment of the portfolio allocated to Allstate’s investment portfolio
responsible investments from 11.1% at increased to $7.5 billion (12%) as of
performance. We integrate ESG
year-end 2021 year-end 2022, including education,
considerations within our investment sustainability, affordable housing,
analysis and decision-making health care, green bonds, diverse
sponsors, and renewable investments
processes and have established
climate change and IDE as two Strive for $180 million in new Allstate achieved $177 million in
commitments with diverse investment commitments to diverse investment
pillars important to our investing
sponsors and managers in 2022, sponsors and managers including
approach while we continue to nearly 3x historical annual average January 2023 transaction closings
meet shareholder need by having a
positive financial impact.
Impact Sub-Portfolio
Invest in solving societal problems in a targeted manner while achieving attractive returns
Goals 2022 Progress
Expand climate-related investment capabilities and Committed $469 million in climate-related opportunities
relationships, striving for at least $375 million in commitments between 2021 and 2022, exceeding our goal of $375 million
between 2021 and 2022
Strive for at least $300 million in new commitments to low- Committed $255 million in low-income housing tax credits
income housing tax credits during 2022 after an above average investment year of $408 million during
2021.
Other Activities
Align investment so they support our ESG goals
Goals 2022 Progress
Maintain 2% of trading volumes with minority, women and Allstate exceeded our 2022 goal with 2.3% of trading volumes
veteran banking enterprises (MWVBE) in 2022, a 4x increase with diverse brokers
relative to historical volumes of 0.5%.
Increase opportunity for women and racially and ethnically Founding partner of Asset Manager Diversity Accelerator
diverse individuals in the asset management industry (AMDA) program alongside William Blair and LGIM America,
a two-year rotational development program for diverse and
under-represented job seekers60 2023 Proxy Statement
Sustainability at Allstate
Governance of ESG
Board of Directors
The Board believes sustainability benefits Allstate’s stakeholders and drives long-term value creation.
The Board has overall responsibility for ESG oversight with regular updates on ESG matters.
Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility Committee
The nominating, governance and social responsibility committee supplements the Board’s review of ESG matters. The
chief legal officer and general counsel provides regular updates on ESG matters.
Additionally, other Board committees focus on specific components of the ESG strategy. The risk and return
committee reviews climate change risk, the compensation and human capital committee reviews organizational health
and other human capital management practices, and the audit committee reviews data privacy and cybersecurity.
Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel
Our chief legal officer and general counsel works with leadership from across the company to guide Allstate’s
corporate responsibility and sustainability efforts and reports regularly to the nominating, governance and social
responsibility committee on the company’s ESG progress as well as provides periodic updates to the full Board.
The Allstate ESG Steering Committee
Allstate has had an ESG Steering Committee (formerly, the Sustainability Council) since 2007. This cross-functional
management committee supports Allstate’s ongoing commitment to environmental, health and safety, corporate
social responsibility, human capital management, corporate governance, sustainability, and other public policy
matters.
The committee is comprised of individuals from Strategy, Finance, Financial Products, Enterprise Solutions, Corporate
Brand, Enterprise Risk and Return Management, Human Resources, Legal, Investments, Property-Liability, and
Protection Products and Services. Allstate’s senior vice president of corporate strategy and senior vice president of
corporate law co-chair the committee, which meets monthly, and updates senior executives.
The Responsible Investing Committee The Sustainability Team
The Responsible Investing Committee monitors ESG investing The Sustainability team develops the
trends, evaluates ESG investing best practices, supports the work annual sustainability report, responds
of the ESG Steering Committee and periodically reports about its to ratings and rankings questionnaires,
activities to senior leaders within Allstate. In conjunction with Allstate’s drives employee awareness and
Investments Risk Committee, the Responsible Investing Committee engagement with corporate
also monitors our investment portfolio for potential short- and long- sustainability initiatives and reports
term exposures to climate change. monthly to the ESG Steering Committee.61
Executive
Compensation
2
Say-on-Pay: Advisory Vote on the
Compensation of the Named Executives
What am I Overview
voting on?
• Independent oversight by compensation and human capital committee with the
assistance of an independent consultant
We conduct a say-on-
pay vote every year at
• Executive compensation targeted at 50th percentile of peers and aligned with short-
the annual meeting.
and long-term business goals and strategy
While the vote is non-
binding, the Board and • Compensation programs are working effectively. Annual incentive compensation
the compensation and funding for our named executives in 2022 was 57.5% of target, as formulaic result
human capital committee was reduced by 50% due to negative Net Income. Annual performance was above
(the “committee” as maximum performance on Total Premiums and Net Investment Income, below
referenced throughout threshold performance on Performance Net Income, and above target performance
the Compensation on the Strategic Initiatives Scorecard.
Discussion and
Analysis and Executive You may vote to approve or not approve the following advisory resolution on the
Compensation sections) executive compensation of the named executives:
consider the results
as part of their annual RESOLVED, on an advisory basis, the shareholders of The Allstate Corporation
evaluation of our approve the compensation of the named executives, as disclosed pursuant to the
executive compensation compensation disclosure rules of the SEC, including the Compensation Discussion
program. and Analysis and accompanying tables and narrative on pages 62-106 of the Notice
of 2023 Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement.
Voting recommendation
The Board recommends a vote
FOR this proposal.Executive Compensation
62 2023 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
Message from the Compensation and Human Capital Committee
As members of the compensation and human capital committee, we want to thank the many of you that have met
with and provided feedback to us over the course of the last year. We were pleased to hear many shareholders
favorably acknowledge enhancements we have made to Allstate’s compensation program during the past few
years, including the addition of an ESG-oriented metric in the annual incentive plan and a growth metric in the
long-term incentive plan. This past year, the committee was focused on ensuring alignment between compensation
decisions and progress against key business strategies, including Transformative Growth and inclusive diversity
and equity (IDE). We reviewed progress against IDE goals. We also reviewed senior management selections and
oversaw succession planning. We received regular updates on key human capital practices and initiatives happening
across Allstate. This included everything from employee engagement to key hires to company culture, with a special
focus on Allstate's IDE strategy, which is an area where the committee is fully engaged and committed to driving
improvements.
Perry M. Traquina (Chair) Margaret M. Keane Judith A. Sprieser
Richard T. Hume Andrea Redmond
Our Compensation Discussion and Analysis
63 2022 Executive Compensation At-a-Glance
describes Allstate’s executive compensation
63 Target Compensation Mix
program, including total 2022 compensation for
63 Alignment of Pay with Performance
our named executives listed below(1):
63 Annual Cash Incentive
63 2020-2022 Performance Stock Awards
Thomas J. Wilson
64 Compensation Governance Best Practices
Chair, President, and
65 Business Context
Chief Executive Officer (CEO)
66 Comparison of Total Shareholder Return (%) Against Allstate Peers
66 Compensation Reflects Continued Focus on Sustainable Value Creation Jesse Merten
Executive Vice President and
67 Incentive Design and Goal Setting
Chief Financial Officer (CFO)(2)
67 Role of the Compensation and Human Capital Committee
67 Incentive Design, Payout and Goal-Setting Process Mario Rizzo
68 Shareholder Engagement and 2022 Say-on-Pay Results President, Property-Liability and
69 Peer Benchmarking Former CFO(3)
69 Timing of Equity Awards and Grant Practices
John Dugenske
70 Compensation Elements President, Investments and Corporate
70 Overview Strategy
70 Salary
Suren Gupta
71 Annual Cash Incentive Awards
President, Enterprise Solutions
75 Performance Stock Awards and Stock Options
78 2023-2025 Performance Stock Award Range of Performance Robert Toohey
Executive Vice President and
79 Compensation Decisions for 2022
Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO)
84 Other Elements of Compensation
84 Retirement Benefits Former Executive Officers
84 Change in Control and Post-Termination Benefits Don Civgin
Former Vice Chair and CEO, Protection
85 Compensation Governance Practices
Products and Services(4)
85 Equity Ownership Requirements
85 Policies on Hedging and Pledging Securities Glenn Shapiro
86 Clawback of Compensation Former President,
86 Compensation Risk Property-Liability(5)
86 Compensation Committee Report
(1) See Appendix C for a full list of Allstate’s executive officers
86 The Compensation and Human Capital and titles.
(2) Mr. Merten became Executive Vice President and CFO
Committee Report effective September 1, 2022.
(3) Mr. Rizzo became President, Property-Liability effective
September 1, 2022. Prior to September 1, 2022, Mr. Rizzo
served as Executive Vice President and CFO.
(4) M r. Civgin retired from Allstate effective May 1, 2022.
(5) Mr. Shapiro retired from Allstate effective
September 30, 2022.www.allstateproxy.com 63
Executive Compensation
2022 Executive Compensation At-a-Glance
Allstate’s executive compensation program is designed to ensure that the interests of our executives are aligned with
our shareholders:
We Pay for Performance We Establish a Strong Link Between Performance
The majority of the CEO’s and other NEOs’ compensation Measures and Strategic Objectives
opportunity is at-risk and based on measurable
Performance measures are linked to operating priorities
performance goals.
designed to create long-term shareholder value.
Target Compensation Mix
CEO At-Risk Performance-Based Pay: 91%
9%
Base 25% 40% 26%
Salary Annual Cash Incentive Performance Stock Awards Stock Options
OTHER NEOs At-Risk Performance-Based Pay: 82%
18% 25% 34% 23%
Base Salary Annual Cash Incentive Performance Stock Awards Stock Options
Alignment of Pay with Performance
Allstate's executive compensation program is aligned with long-term shareholder value through equity-based programs,
combined with shareholder value-based performance measures and financial performance measures that are closely
correlated with shareholder value over time. A significant portion of the named executives’ compensation is at-risk and
aligned with achievement of our financial and long-term strategic goals. Incentive compensation plans incorporate relevant
metrics and targets to drive the behaviors necessary to accomplish our short- and long-term goals.
2022 Annual Cash Incentive
57.5% TOTAL PREMIUMS PERFORMANCE NET INVESTMENT STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
(in millions)(1) NET INCOME INCOME SCORECARD
Pool funding (in millions)(1) (in millions)(1)
of 115% was
reduced by Actual Results: $50,437 Actual Results: ($426) Actual Results: $2,318 Actual Results: 125%
50% due to
negative net $48,100 $49,100 $50,100 $800 $2,000 $3,200 $1,615 $1,860 $2,155 50% 100% 200%
income as Threshold Target Maximum Threshold Target Maximum Threshold Target Maximum Threshold Target Maximum
determined by
these results
Reflects 2021 actual results of Total Premiums of $45,812, Performance Net Income of $3,689, Net Investment Income of $2,574, and Strategic
Initiatives Scorecard of 125%
2020-2022 Performance Stock Awards
124% AVERAGE PERFORMANCE NET INCOME RETURN RELATIVE TSR(1)
ON EQUITY(1)
Payout
percentage Actual Results: 15.5% Actual Results: 33.3%
7.0% 14.0% 17.0% <25th 55th 90th
Threshold Target Maximum Threshold Target Maximum
(1) For a description of how these measures are determined, see pages 71-78.64 2023 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Compensation Governance Best Practices
Our compensation program adheres to high standards of compensation governance.
What We Do What We Do Not Do
% Benchmark to Peers of Similar Industry, Size and X No Employment Agreements for
Business Complexity Executive Officers
% Target Pay at 50th Percentile of Peers X No Guaranteed Annual Salary Increases
% Independent Compensation Consultant or Bonuses
% Double Trigger in the Event of a Change in Control X No Special Tax Gross Ups
% Maximum Payout Caps for Annual Cash Incentive Compensation X No Repricing or Exchange of Underwater Stock
and Performance Stock Awards (“PSAs”) Options
% Robust Equity Ownership Requirements X No Plans that Encourage Excessive Risk-Taking
% Clawback or Cancellation of Certain Compensation X No Hedging or Pledging of Allstate Securities
% One-Year Minimum Equity Vesting Provision in the Equity Plan X No Inclusion of Equity Awards in
Pension Calculations
% Provide clear rationale for the metrics used to fund the annual
and long-term incentive plans X No Excessive Perks
What’s New
Beginning in 2023, in light of the prominence that IDE and Transformative Growth have within Allstate’s long-term strategic
priorities, these two components will be integrated into the long-term incentive plan, with a weighting of 10% for each.
Our Executive Compensation Program is Tied to Our Business Strategies
Allstate's business relies on the expertise and capabilities of colleagues to lead the company and various businesses
in ways that meet customers’ needs and, in turn, promote the long-term interests of shareholders. We have designed
our executive compensation program to achieve business objectives and attract, motivate and retain highly talented
individuals.
Allstate's executive compensation program is designed not only to closely align the compensation and interests of
the named executives with the long-term interests of shareholders, but also to reflect the economic realities of the
operating environment. In addition to salary, Allstate’s executive compensation program emphasizes performance-
based compensation in the form of cash incentive awards and equity incentive awards that focus respectively on
the achievement of short- and long-term financial and strategic targets. Allstate believes that this target-based
incentive structure fosters a culture of high performance and accountability and promotes shareholder interests by
closely aligning executive compensation with objectively measured company performance and achievement of key
strategic priorities.www.allstateproxy.com 65
Executive Compensation
Business Context
In 2022, Allstate adapted to unprecedented increases in loss $3.4 billion
costs, generated investment returns in excess of benchmarks
and advanced our Operating Priorities and the Transformative
Distributed to shareholders in cash through
Growth Strategy:
stock repurchases and common stock dividends
Progress on our Operating Priorities
Better serve • Enterprise Net Promoter Score, which measures how likely customers are to recommend us, finished
customers below the prior year, reflecting substantial price increases necessary to offset higher loss costs.
Grow customer base • Consolidated policies in force was 189.1 million, a 1.0% decrease from prior year. Property-Liability
policies in force increased by 0.7% compared to the prior year, as continued growth at National General
was substantially offset by the Allstate brand as new business was limited in many states.
• Protection Services policies in force declined 1.4%, primarily due to expiring low average premium
policies from a major retail account that ended in 2019.
Achieve target • Return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity was (7.3)% in 2022.
economic returns on • The Property-Liability combined ratio of 106.6 for the full year increased compared to the prior year
capital primarily driven by higher auto losses.
• Executing on comprehensive profit improvement plan to restore auto margins through rate
increases, expense reductions and underwriting actions.
Proactively manage • Net investment income of $2.4 billion in 2022 was $890 million below prior year as higher market-
investments based investment income was more than offset by lower performance-based results.
• Total return on the $61.8 billion investment portfolio (as of 12/31/22) was (4.0)% in 2022 and compares
favorably to full year 2022 performance of the S&P 500 of (18.1)% and the Bloomberg Intermediate Bond
return of (9.4)%.
• Proactive portfolio actions to reduce inflation and economic risk by shortening fixed income duration
mitigated portfolio losses by approximately $2 billion this year.
Build long-term • Allstate made substantial progress in advancing Transformative Growth initiatives in 2022, including
growth platforms launching an Affordable, Simple, Connected auto insurance offering in two states, continued cost
reductions, and deploying a new property-liability technology platform.
• National General is meeting or exceeding acquisition performance targets with the objective of
building a strong competitive position in independent agent distribution.
• Protection Services increased revenues, particularly Allstate Protection Plans.
• Arity continued to expand its data acquisition platform with more than one trillion miles of traffic data
and launched Arity IQ, a product to improve new business profitability for auto insurers.
Progress on our Transformative Growth Strategy
Improve • Improved the competitive prices of products through lower costs, increased price sophistication and
customer value telematics.
• Increased engagement with the Allstate Mobile app and new business penetration of telematics
products, including pay-per-mile insurance. Provided additional consumer-focused protection
solutions.
Expand • Increased direct channel distribution through improved online experience and data-driven insights
customer access to enhance call center sales.
• Grew National General by leveraging the Allstate brand capabilities and data to expand product
offerings and fully utilize our independent agency relationships.
Increase • Improved the effectiveness of customer acquisition by expanding lead management, building data
sophistication capabilities and utilizing household insights.
and investment in
customer acquisition
Modernize technology • Launched a new technology ecosystem to deliver affordable, simple, and connected experiences
ecosystem and products at a lower cost. This effort will enable retirement of legacy systems.
Drive organizational • Enhanced and expanded organizational capabilities by increasing digital expertise, process redesign,
transformation decision clarity and employee empowerment, agility and diversity.Comparison of Total Shareholder Return (%) Against Allstate Peers
5-YEAR 3-YEAR 1-YEAR
100%
75%
50%
25%
0%
%8.96
%1.54
Allstate
ranks
9 out
of 12
%6.08
%4.68
100%
75%
50%
25%
0%
%3.94
%9.55
%4.04
%9.92
100%
75%
Allstate
50%
ranks
10 out 25%
of 12
0%
%5.31 %1.51
%7.9
%3.81
66 2023 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Allstate
ranks
5 out
of 12
Peers P&C Peers Life Peers Allstate
Compensation Reflects Continued Focus on Sustainable Value Creation
• The committee evaluates the executive compensation structure on an annual basis to ensure alignment with
Allstate's compensation philosophy, business strategies and shareholder priorities. The compensation philosophy
centers around maintaining a compensation program for the named executives that is designed to promote
the achievement of short-term and long-term financial and strategic goals and create sustainable value for
shareholders. Noteworthy accomplishments in 2022 that created shareholder value include:
• Customer value for auto and homeowners insurance was increased through cost reductions and sophisticated
pricing
• Innovative growth platforms (such as telematics and identity protection) and broadened distribution of Allstate
Protection Plans further enhance customer value proposition
• Expanded customer access was achieved with growth through independent agents
• Enhanced direct-to-consumer experience that also leverages our expertise in data and analytics through launch of
Affordable, Simple, Connected auto insurance product
• Allstate’s capital position remained strong, allowing us to provide cash returns to shareholders of $3.4 billion in
2022 through dividends and share repurchaseswww.allstateproxy.com 67
Executive Compensation
Incentive Design and Goal Setting
Role of the Compensation and Human Capital Committee
The compensation and human capital committee oversees and provides strategic direction to management regarding Allstate's
executive compensation program. The committee sets the CEO’s compensation, reviews and approves compensation for the
rest of the leadership team, reviews senior management selections and oversees succession planning. The committee also
oversees human capital priorities for the company, including review of Allstate's IDE strategy and initiatives.
The committee evaluates the executive compensation structure on an annual basis to ensure alignment with Allstate's
compensation philosophy, business strategy, and shareholder priorities. The compensation philosophy centers around
maintaining a compensation program for the named executives that is designed to promote the achievement of short-term and
long-term financial and strategic goals. For additional information on strategic and operating priorities, see pages 10-11.
Incentive Design, Payout, and Goal-Setting Process
For the annual and long-term incentive programs, the committee oversees a rigorous and comprehensive goal-setting
process. The committee uses performance measures in the annual and long-term programs that (1) align with the company’s
strategy, operating principles and priorities, and shareholder interests, (2) support the achievement of corporate goals, and
(3) reflect the company’s overall performance. The following timeline of key events reflects the committee’s process:
April-July
Benchmarking
• Evaluate peer group to determine if • Review feedback from shareholders
any changes are required for the next and governance firms on compensation
performance cycle • Independent compensation consultant
• Compare against peers’ actual provides advice on incentive design
compensation paid, financial and overall executive compensation
results, and shareholder returns Ongoing program and executive pay levels
over one, three and five years • The consultant provides information on
• Review compensation
as provided by the independent current market practices and industry
philosophy and
compensation consultant’s pay for trends
objectives in light of
performance analysis
company performance,
goals and strategy,
• Actual performance against goals shareholder feedback, • Establish plan design and performance
determines the corporate pool for the and external measures
annual incentive award benchmarking • Review the annual operating plan to
• CEO reviews overall company funding • Monitor compensation establish target performance and ranges
for each business area based on its estimates in comparison for threshold and maximum for the annual
operating performance in relationship to actual and relative incentive program, and review historical
to target performance goals performance and expected performance, market
• Determine the number of performance • Monitor compliance with expectations and industry trends when
stock awards that will vest for the management equity approving the ranges of performance for
applicable measurement period based ownership requirements the long-term incentive program
on actual performance • Review operating plans and
• Review and approve salary adjustments compensation measures for alignment
and annual incentive payments and with enterprise risk and return principles
equity grants for executive officers
February November-January
Calculating Payouts Establishing Plan Design and Key Metrics
What’s New
In 2022, the committee engaged a new independent compensation consultant, who provided fresh perspective to the
committee on plan design, industry and market trends, and actual compensation in comparison to operating results and peers.68 2023 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Shareholder Engagement and 2022 Say-on-Pay Results
Allstate engages with its largest shareholders multiple times throughout
87%
the year to ensure continued alignment with shareholder expectations and
market trends.
The committee actively solicits the views of significant shareholders on
At our last annual
executive compensation matters. In determining the structure and amount
shareholder meeting,
of executive pay, the committee carefully considered this feedback. Investors
approximately 87% of votes
generally commented that Allstate utilizes best practices and remains
cast supported our executive
focused on pay for performance in its plan design. The committee considered
compensation program.
the vote results, investor input and current market practices and made
changes to respond to that feedback, as described below.
What We Heard What We Did
Prefer to see an ESG- In 2021, we added a qualitative measure to the annual incentive plan.
oriented goal, or The Strategic Initiatives Scorecard, weighted at 20%, measures progress
other non-financial made against Transformative Growth and IDE strategies throughout the
metric, in the executive year. Beginning in 2023, these two components will shift to the PSAs to
compensation program align with sustainable long-term objectives.
When ESG-related metrics We include robust disclosure on the criteria considered by the
are used in compensation committee when determining funding results under the Strategic
programs, prefer to see Initiatives Scorecard, including a summary of prior year achievements.
clear disclosure for how
they are evaluated
The committee has previously made changes to the compensation program based on shareholder feedback. For example,
in response to shareholder feedback, beginning in 2020, relative TSR was added as a metric for our performance stock
awards, weighted at 30%. This change to the long-term incentive program improves alignment between stock performance
and pay outcomes in 2022 and beyond.www.allstateproxy.com 69
Executive Compensation
Peer Benchmarking
The committee monitors performance toward goals throughout the year and reviews the executive compensation
program design and executive pay levels annually. As part of that evaluation, Pay Governance, the committee’s
independent compensation consultant, provided executive compensation data, information on current market practices,
and benchmarking on target pay opportunities. The committee benchmarks executive compensation program design,
executive pay, and performance against a group of peer companies that are publicly traded. Product mix, market segment,
annual revenues, premiums, assets, and market value were considered when identifying peer companies. The committee
believes Allstate competes against these companies for executive talent, business and shareholder investment. The
committee reviews the composition of the peer group annually with the assistance of its compensation consultant.
The compensation consultant’s recommendation has been to use a peer group that reflects Allstate’s business and
operations. Currently, eight out of eleven of Allstate’s peer companies also include Allstate in their respective peer company
lists. The following table reflects the peer group used for 2022 compensation benchmarking.
Total Shareholder Return (%)
PEER COMPANIES(1) Revenue Market Cap Assets Premiums One Three Five
Company Name ($ in billions) ($ in billions) ($ in billions) ($ in billions) Year Years Years
AFLAC Inc. 19.5 44.3 131.0 15.3 26.4 46.9 85.0
American International Group Inc. 56.5 46.6 526.6 34.8 13.7 34.4 21.9
Chubb Limited 43.1 91.5 199.1 40.4 16.0 50.4 67.1
The Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. 22.4 23.9 73.0 19.7 12.3 34.6 51.9
Humana Inc. 92.9 64.0 43.1 87.7 11.2 42.5 113.7
Manulife Financial Corporation 11.8 37.0 627.3 29.1 (1.1) 3.0 8.6
Marsh & McLennan 20.8 81.9 33.5 12.6 (3.4) 55.6 121.2
MetLife Inc. 69.9 56.4 666.6 55.0 19.2 58.0 71.4
The Progressive Corporation 49.6 75.9 75.5 49.2 26.8 98.9 172.0
Prudential Financial Inc. 60.1 36.4 689.9 43.6 (3.9) 23.6 9.1
The Travelers Companies Inc. 36.9 43.5 115.7 33.8 22.4 47.0 55.4
Allstate 51.4 35.7 98.0 47.7 18.3 29.9 45.1
Allstate Ranking Relative to Peers:
Property and Casualty Insurance Products Life Insurance and Financial Products All Peer Companies (1) Information as of year-end 2022.
The committee uses compensation surveys for certain executives that provide information on companies of similar size and
business mix as Allstate, as well as companies with a broader market context.
The committee uses the 50th percentile of our peer group as a guideline in setting the target total direct
compensation of our named executives. Within the guideline, the committee balances the various elements of
compensation based on individual experience, job scope and responsibilities, performance, tenure, and market practices.
Timing of Equity Awards and Grant Practices
Typically, the committee approves grants of equity awards during a meeting in the first fiscal quarter. The timing allows the
committee to align awards with our annual performance and business goals.
Throughout the year, the committee may grant equity incentive awards to newly hired or promoted executives or to retain
or recognize executives. The grant date for these awards was fixed as the third business day of a month following the later
of committee action or the date of hire or promotion.
For additional information on the committee’s practices, see portions of the Board Oversight and Board Meetings and
Committees sections of this proxy statement on pages 33-40 and 47-49, respectively.70 2023 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Compensation Elements
Overview
The following table lists the elements of target direct compensation for our 2022 executive compensation program.
Short-Term Mid-Term Long-Term
Fixed Variable
15%(1) 25%(1) 36%(1) 24%(1)
Base Salary Annual Cash Performance Stock Awards Stock Options
Incentive Awards
Cash Cash Equity Equity
Why We Pay This Element
Attract and retain Motivate and reward Motivate and reward executives Align the interests of
executives with executives for performance for performance on key executives with long-
competitive on key strategic, long-term measures. term shareholder value.
level of cash operational, and financial
Align the interests of executives with Retain executive talent.
compensation. measures during the year.
long-term shareholder value.
Retain executive talent.
Key Characteristics
Reviewed A corporate-wide funding PSAs vest on the third anniversary of Non-qualified stock
annually and pool based on performance the grant date. options to purchase
adjusted when on four measures: shares at the market
For the 2021 and 2022 PSA grants,
appropriate. price when awarded.
• Total Premiums(2) actual amounts of PSAs vesting based
Vest ratably over
• Performance Net on performance on three-year Items three years.
Income(2) in Force Growth(2), Performance Net
Income ROE(2) and Relative TSR(2) with Expire in ten years or, in
• Net Investment Income(2)
a requirement of positive net income in the event of retirement,
• Strategic Initiatives
order for our executives to earn PSAs the earlier of five years
Scorecard(2)
for Average Performance Net Income or normal expiration.
ROE above target.
Pool is then allocated
based on business unit and
individual performance;
positive net income
required for any payout
above target.
(1) Represents the average of the target direct compensation elements for all of the named executives in 2022.
(2) For a description of how these measures are determined, see page 102.
Salary
In setting executive salary levels, the committee uses the 50th percentile of total target direct compensation of our
peer companies as a guideline, which supports Allstate’s ability to compete effectively for and to retain executive talent.
Annual merit increases for named executives are based on their performance and external benchmarking as provided by
the independent compensation consultant.www.allstateproxy.com 71
Executive Compensation
Annual Cash Incentive Awards
Metrics and Purpose
Metric Purpose
Financial Total Premiums(1) (35%) Captures growth and competitive position of the Allstate
Goals businesses
Performance Net Income(1) (35%) Aligns with shareholders’ expectations of operating profitability
Net Investment Income(1) (10%) Reflects a significant component of profitability
Non- Strategic Initiatives Scorecard(1) Non-financial scorecard measures progress on Transformative
Financial (20%) Growth and IDE priorities
Goals
(1) The numbers reflect the percentage that each performance measure contributed to the total corporate funding pool.
What’s New
Beginning with the 2021 annual incentive plan year, the committee approved the addition of the Strategic
Initiatives Scorecard as a fourth component for all eligible annual incentive plan participants, with a total
weighting of 20%. The committee had several discussions around the addition of the scorecard, criteria to
be considered, and the process that would be followed for evaluating performance throughout the year and
determining final year-end funding. It was determined that performance against the scorecard hinged on
progress made toward two strategic priorities: IDE and Transformative Growth. Beginning in 2023, in light of the
prominence IDE and Transformative Growth have within Allstate’s long-term strategic priorities, it was determined
that these two components would be moved from the annual incentive plan to the long-term incentive plan, with
a total weighting of 10% for each. This will take the place of the Items in Force Growth component.
How Target Opportunities Are Set
• Target annual incentive percentages for each named executive are based on consideration of incentive opportunities at
peer companies and our benchmark target for total direct compensation at the 50th percentile.
How Performance Goals Are Established
• The committee sets annual cash incentive performance goals based on the annual operating plan. Target performance
is equal to the operating plan. Threshold and maximum measures are based on a range of sensitivities relative
to the operating plan. To further test the appropriateness of the ranges, the committee’s independent consultant
provides advice based on peer performance, market expectations and industry trends. The chief risk officer reviews the
performance measures and ranges to ensure they are consistent with Allstate’s risk and return principles.
• The 2022 annual incentive plan target for Total Premiums was above prior year actual results as it has been for at least
the last decade.
• Performance Net Income target for 2022 was set below 2021 actual results due to auto claims frequency approaching
pre-pandemic levels and increasing severity in auto and property insurance.
• Net Investment Income target was set below 2021 actual results due to projected performance-based income reverting
back to average long-term expectations.
• The 2023 annual incentive plan targets are not included since those targets do not relate to 2022 pay, and because
target performance is set at the 2023 operating plan, which is proprietary information.72 2023 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Corporate Pool Funded Based on Actual Performance
• Actual performance on the previously approved measures determines the overall funding level of the corporate pool and
the aggregate total award budget for eligible employees. The committee approved the total company funding after the
end of the performance period based on the actual results on these performance measures. For the actual results and
detail on how each measure was defined and calculated, see pages 72-74.
• In 2022, the pool was funded based on the collective results of the four performance metrics. Funding ranges from 0% to
200% of target, and results between threshold, target and maximum are subject to interpolation.
• In the event of a net loss, the corporate pool funding is reduced by 50% of actual performance for senior executives,
including the named executive officers. For example, if performance measures ordinarily would fund the corporate pool
at 60% and there was a net loss, then the corporate pool would be funded at 30% for senior executives. This mechanism
ensures alignment of pay and performance in the event of multiple large natural catastrophes and/or extreme financial
market conditions.
Determine Calculation of Corporate Pool Funding
Actual Performance Against Target on Plan Measures
Total Performance Net Strategic Net Loss Corporate
Premiums Net Income Investment Initiatives Modifier Pool Funding
(35%) (35%) Income Scorecard 0.5 in the event (0%-200% of
(10%) (20%) of a net loss target)
(Funding from 0%-200% of target)
Determine Annual Incentive Payments to NEOs and other Executive Officers
• Committee’s compensation recommendations for the CEO are reviewed and approved by the independent directors of
our Board in executive session.
• Committee reviews and approves CEO recommendations for executive officers based on pool funding, the target
annual incentive percentages for each NEO, and individual performance.
Determine Calculation of NEO Annual Incentive Award Payouts
Corporate Pool Funding NEO Annual Cash
Individual Multiplier NEO target opportunity
(0%-200%) Incentive Payout
Determine Annual Incentive Payment for Other Eligible Participants
The committee provides oversight of annual incentive processes and decisions below executive officers
• The CEO may allocate the corporate pool between the Market- For 2022, the CEO distributed
Facing Businesses and Areas of Responsibility (“AOR”) if justified by committee-approved funding based
relative performance against annual operating goals and other key on the relative performance of Market
business success metrics. Facing Businesses and AORs.
• Individual awards for eligible employees are determined by senior
leaders.
7www.allstateproxy.com 73
Executive Compensation
2022 Actual Performance
We paid the 2022 cash incentive awards in March 2023.
TOTAL PREMIUMS ($ in millions) PERFORMANCE NET INCOME ($ in millions)
$51000 $50,437 $6000
$49,100
Payout
$49000 $5000
200%
$47000 $45,812 $4000 $3,635 $3,689(2)
$45000 $43,665 Payout Payout
200% $3000 105.4%
$43000
$2,000
$2000
$41000
Payout
$39000 $1000 0%
($426)(2)
$37000 $0
2021 2022
2021 2022
Target Actual
Target Actual
NET INVESTMENT INCOME ($ in millions) STRATEGIC INITIATIVES SCORECARD
$4000
140%
125% 125%
120%
$3000
$2,574(1)
$2,240 $2,318(1) 100%
Payout Payout Payout
$2000 200% $1,860 Payout 80% 125% 125%
200%
60%
$1000
40%
$0
2021 2022 20%
2021 2022
Target Actual
Actual
(1) The collar for Net Investment Income was utilized in 2021 decreasing the absolute level by $1,136 million to $2,574 million, and in 2022 decreasing the
absolute level by $99 million to $2,318 million.
(2) The collar for Performance Net Income was utilized in 2021 decreasing the absolute level by $610 million to $3,689 million, and in 2022 decreasing the
absolute level by $209 million to ($426) million.
• For a description of how the 2022 measures are determined, see pages 71-72.
• The ranges of performance and 2022 actual results are shown in the following table. The committee assessed the CEO’s
2022 performance, and the CEO assessed each of the other NEO’s 2022 performance. No discretion was applied to the
Named Executives’ annual incentive awards in 2022.
• Pool funding for senior leadership was cut in half due to negative net income.74 2023 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
2022 ANNUAL CASH INCENTIVE AWARD RANGES OF PERFORMANCE
Increase/
(Decrease)
2021 Versus 2021 2022
Actual 2022 2022 2022 Actual %
Measure Results Threshold Target Maximum Results Target
Actual Results: $50,437
Total Premiums
($ in millions) 45,812 $48,100 $49,100 $50,100 4,625 200%
Performance Net Actual Results: ($426)
Income
($ in millions) 3,689 $800 $2,000 $3,200 (4,115) 0%
Actual Results: $2,318
Net Investment Income
($ in millions) 2,574 $1,615 $1,860 $2,155 (256) 200%
Strategic Initiatives 2022 Actual Results: 125%
Scorecard 125% — 125%
Payout Percentages(1) 50%(2) 100% 200% 115%(3)
(1) Payout percentages reflect contribution to incentive compensation pool.
(2) Actual performance below threshold results in a 0% payout.
(3) Negative Performance Net Income results in an aggregate funding of 50% of actual results (57.5% payout)
For 2022, the committee approved a funding result of 125% for each of the Transformative Growth and IDE components of
the Strategic Initiatives Scorecard, reflective of positive progress toward Transformative Growth and IDE goals. Below are
the criteria considered by the committee in determining the funding results.
Transformative Growth Scorecard Criteria Summary of 2022 Achievements
Improve customer value Continued to drive cost reductions while price competitiveness outpaced
expectations during a period of accelerated rate actions
Expand customer access New business and agency efficiency measures surpassed expectations
throughout the year. Expanded product offering through National General
independent agents
Increase sophistication and Quote volumes declined as advertising levels were reduced to align with
investment in customer acquisition Property and Casualty profitability tactics while the efficiency of in-market
advertising exceeded expectations
Modernize technology ecosystem New Affordable, Simple, Connected auto product successfully launched
in Illinois and expanded to Tennessee in select zip codes with in-market
performance largely aligned with expectations
Drive organizational transformation Engagement in the transformation and ability to replace talent improved while
employee attrition remained elevated relative to historical levels. Enhanced
decision clarity
Inclusive Diversity and Equity
Scorecard Criteria Summary of 2022 Achievements
People Maintained progress towards Allstate’s ongoing commitment to improve
female and racially and/or ethnically diverse workforce representation.
Business Practices Exceeded 2022 spend goal with diverse suppliers as well as 2022 goal of
maintaining 2% of trading volumes with diverse brokers. Made progress on
goal of new commitments with diverse investment sponsors and managers.
Cultural Integration Maintained inclusive diversity index scores (Inspire Survey) in mid-80’s, on a scale
of 0-100, and found no meaningful differences between race and gender.www.allstateproxy.com 75
Executive Compensation
Performance Stock Awards and Stock Options
Allstate grants equity awards annually to executives consistent with market practice and the philosophy that a significant
amount of compensation should be in the form of equity. Additionally, from time to time, equity awards are granted to
attract new executives and to retain existing executives.
Mix of Equity Incentives
The mix of equity incentives for senior executives is 60% PSAs
and 40% stock options. PSAs and stock options are forms of
performance-based incentive compensation because PSAs are
40% 60%
earned based on achieving established performance goals and
stock options require stock price appreciation to deliver value to Stock PSAs
an executive. Options
Performance Stock Award Metrics and Purpose
PSAs granted PSAs granted in Why Metric Was Chosen
in 2020 2021 and 2022
Average Performance Net Income ROE
70% 50% Average • Correlates to changes in long-term shareholder value.
Average Performance
• Measures performance in a way that is tracked and understood by investors.
Performance Net Income
• Captures both income statement and balance sheet impacts, including capital management
Net Income ROE actions.
ROE
Relative TSR
• Added as a second measure in 2020 based on feedback from shareholders and market practices.
• Performance is relative to a custom TSR peer group. The custom TSR peer group for awards
made in 2021 and 2022 is shown on page 69. Peer groups are designed in consultation with our
30% Relative compensation consultant.
TSR
• <25th percentile = 0% payout
• 25th percentile = 50% payout
• 55th percentile = 100% payout
• 90th percentile = 200% payout
30% Relative
TSR
Items in Force Growth
20% Items in
• Selected as a third measure in 2021 to measure progress on Allstate’s Transformative Growth
Force Growth
strategy and assess growth of Allstate’s businesses.
Measurement period Three-years
Vesting Between 0% to 200% of the target number of PSAs granted
• The measures are further described on pages 102-103. For each measure, the committee considered historical and
expected performance, market expectations and industry trends when approving the range of performance goals.
• All PSA awards for Performance Net Income ROE include a minimum or maximum amount of after-tax catastrophe losses
if actual catastrophe losses are less than or exceed those amounts, respectively, which serves to decrease volatility and
stabilize the measure.76 2023 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
How Payouts Are Calculated
Actual Performance Payout Against Target on Plan Measures
Average Performance Net Income ROE Items In Force
Relative TSR NEO Target PSA
X 70% (PSAs granted in 2020) Growth X 20%
X 30% Opportunity Payout
X 50% (PSAs granted in 2021 and 2022) (PSAs granted in
2021 and 2022)
Payout from 0%-200% of target Payout from
No payout if Allstate has a cumulative net 0%-200% of
loss in a measurement period target
• At the end of each measurement period, the committee certifies the level of achievement on each performance measure.
• The committee requires positive net income in order for senior executives to earn PSAs based on Average Performance
Net Income ROE above target. If Allstate has a cumulative net loss in a measurement period, the number of PSAs vested
would not exceed target, regardless of the Average Performance Net Income ROE. This positive net income hurdle is
included to prevent misalignment between Allstate reported net income and the PSAs vested based on the Average
Performance Net Income ROE result. This situation could occur if, for example, catastrophe losses or capital losses that
are not included in Performance Net Income ROE result in a net loss for the period. For a description of the calculation,
see page 78.
• Beginning with the 2023 PSA grant, the Items in Force component will be replaced with Inclusive Diversity and Equity
and Transformative Growth measures, each carrying a 10% weighting.www.allstateproxy.com 77
Executive Compensation
PSA Ranges of Performance
For the last seven PSA grants, the performance measures and levels of performance needed to earn the threshold, target
and maximum number of PSAs, as well as actual results and payout percentages, are set forth in the chart and table below.
The total shareholder returns for Allstate and its peers are also shown for completed cycles.
PERFORMANCE STOCK AWARDS RANGES OF PERFORMANCE
Total Shareholder Return
Performance Cycle Threshold Target Maximum Actual Results Allstate Peers
Vested Awards
2018-2020 60.4% 34.4%
• Performance Net Income ROE (70%) 7.0% 13.5% 15.0% 19.1%
• Earned Book Value (30%) 7.0% 12.5% 14.0% 19.9%
2019-2021 11.6% 14.2%
• Performance Net Income ROE (70%) 7.0% 14.0% 16.0% 20.8%
• Earned Book Value (30%) 7.0% 12.0% 14.0% 23.3%
2020-2022 29.9% 49.3%
• Performance Net Income ROE (70%) 7.0% 14.0% 17.0% 15.5%
• Relative TSR (30%) <25th 55th 90th 33.3%
Performance Cycle Threshold Target Maximum Actual Results
Outstanding Awards
2021-2023
Performance Net Income ROE (50%) 10.0% 16.0% 18.0%
Two year results are between threshold and
Relative TSR (30%) <25th 55th 90th
target for Performance Net Income ROE and
Items in Force Growth (20%)(1) ND ND ND Relative TSR
2022-2024
One year results are between threshold and
Performance Net Income ROE (50%) 10.0% 16.0% 18.0%
target for Performance Net Income ROE and
Relative TSR (30%) <25th 55th 90th
between target and maximum for Relative
Items in Force Growth (20%)(1) ND ND ND TSR
Payout Percentages 0% 100% 200%
(1) The amounts for Items in Force Growth are not disclosed (ND) because they are established based on the three-year strategic plan, which is proprietary
information, and disclosure of goals could cause competitive harm.78 2023 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
PSAs Granted in Last Three Performance Cycles
The following table shows the target number of PSAs granted to each of our named executives for the 2020-2022, 2021-
2023 and 2022-2024 performance cycles.
PERFORMANCE CYCLE(1)
Target Number of PSAs for
2020-2022 2021-2023 2022-2024
Named Executive Performance Cycle Performance Cycle Performance Cycle
Mr. Wilson 53,175 61,453 52,513
Mr. Rizzo 10,430 13,090 11,328
Mr. Merten 4,346 6,471 6,736
Mr. Dugenske 12,162 15,334 13,038
Mr. Gupta 7,967 9,961 8,562
Mr. Toohey — — 4,372
Mr. Civgin 14,196 18,613 15,411
Mr. Shapiro 12,240 15,727 13,356
(1) The actual number of PSAs that will vest will vary from 0% to 200% of the target PSAs based on Average Performance Net Income ROE, Relative TSR and
Items in Force Growth (for awards granted in 2021 and 2022) and for the applicable measurement period.
2023-2025 Performance Stock Award
For the 2023-2025 award, the Average Performance Net Income ROE and Relative TSR measures are calculated,
respectively, as follows:
Performance Catastrophe Losses Adjusted Common Shareholders’ Equity(2) Average Performance
Net Income(1) Net Income ROE(3)
Adjusted to reflect Average of common shareholders’ equity
Average for three a minimum or excluding unrealized gains and losses, after 50% of PSA
years in the maximum amount tax, at December 2022, and at the end of Performance
performance cycle of catastrophe each year in the performance cycle Measure
losses
Final Average Initial Average Relative TSR
Adjusted Close Adjusted Stock
TSR is ranked relative to 10 peer companies
Price(4) Price(5) Total Shareholder
(including Allstate), S&P 500 Index, and S&P
Return (TSR)
Financial Index(6)
Initial Average Adjusted Stock Price(5) 30% of PSA Performance Measure
(1) Performance Net Income is defined on pages 101-103.
(2) Adjusted Common Shareholders’ Equity is defined on page 103.
(3) ROE calculation excludes parent holding company level deployable assets and associated income in excess of $2 billion.
(4) Final Average Adjusted Close Price is the average Adjusted Close Price over the 20 trading days prior to and including the final day of the Performance Period.
(5) Initial Average Adjusted Stock Price is the average Adjusted Stock Price over the 20 trading days prior to the first day of the Performance Period.
(6) See page 103 for information on these peer companies.
2023-2025 PERFORMANCE STOCK AWARD RANGE OF PERFORMANCE
Average Performance Net Income ROE (50%)(1)
Relative Percentile Rank TSR (30%)(2)
Transformative Growth (10%)(3)
Inclusive Diversity and Equity(10%)(3)
(1) Subject to positive net income hurdle. For a description of how this measure is determined, see page 76.
(2) The 25th percentile would result in a 50% payout. If greater than the 25th percentile, results would be interpolated.
(3) For a description of how these measures are determined, see page 103.www.allstateproxy.com 79
Executive Compensation
Compensation Decisions for 2022
Thomas J. Wilson 2022 Compensation
Chair, President, and Chief Executive Officer Weighting Actual Target Outcome
9% Salary
Our Chair, President, and CEO is responsible for managing the company’s $1,385,000 N/A N/A
(Cash)
strategic direction, operating results, organizational health, ethics and
compliance, and corporate responsibility. 16% Annual $2,389,125 300% 57.5%
Incentive of of target
(Cash)
2022 Performance salary
Mr. Wilson’s compensation reflects his responsibilities, experience and
Long-Term $11,161,669(1) 775% 100%
performance, peer company CEO compensation and compensation program 75% Incentive of of target
design. An independent compensation consultant provides guidance to Award
salary
the committee on plan design and actual compensation in comparison to (Equity)
operating results and peers.
Mr. Wilson’s performance as Chair, President, and CEO is assessed over Salary (Cash)
one- and three- year periods under the following five categories: The committee did not adjust Mr. Wilson's salary
of $1,385,000.
Operating Results
• Excellent operating leadership in a difficult external environment. Incentive Targets
• Implementing a comprehensive auto profit improvement plan in response to Mr. Wilson’s annual incentive targets did not
inflation in loss costs including significant increases in insurance premiums. change in 2022. Mr. Wilson’s annual incentive
• Non-auto insurance businesses had strong operating and target was 300% of salary and his target equity
financial results. incentive opportunity was 775% of salary.
• Investment returns were significantly better than external benchmarks.
Annual Incentive (Cash)
• Returned over $3.4 billion in cash to shareholders.
Mr. Wilson’s target annual incentive payment of
300% of base salary with a maximum funding
Strategic Position
opportunity for the award pool of 200% of
• Enhanced Our Shared Purpose to reflect cultural changes necessary
target was unchanged in 2022. The committee
to achieve Transformative Growth and environmental, social and
approved an annual cash incentive award of
governance (ESG) objectives.
$2,389,125, which was 50% of the funding level
• Continued implementation of strategy to increase market share in personal
given negative net income.
property-liability and expand protection solutions offered to customers.
• Significant progress in implementing Transformative Growth. Long-Term Incentive Award (Equity)
• Excellent results in expanding protection solutions through Allstate In 2022, based on its assessment of Mr. Wilson’s
Protection Plans. performance in delivering strong business
results in 2021, his job scope, and market data,
Leadership Team
the committee granted him equity awards with
• Talented, experienced and highly engaged senior leadership team with
a grant date fair value of $11,161,669, which
excellent collaboration to achieve strategic vision.
was Mr. Wilson’s target equity incentive award
• Successfully managed leadership transitions of vice chair, president,
opportunity of 775% of salary due to progress
Property-Liability, and chief financial, legal, and human resources officers.
made toward Transformative Growth goals.
• Ranked #21 in Top 250 Best Managed Companies by the Wall Street
Journal/ Drucker Institute in 2022. Strong performance on Inclusive
Diversity and Equity strategy.
(1) Reflects the accounting value of the equity award. This is higher
than the closing price on the date of grant, which is used to
Corporate Stewardship calculate the number of performance-based shares awarded.
• Allstate recognized as “A Most Ethical Company” by Ethisphere for ninth See footnote 1 to the Summary Compensation Table on
consecutive year. page 87 for more details on the Monte Carlo valuation.
• Corporate reputation and leadership of inclusive diversity and equity are
highly rated.
• Implementing broad based Inclusive Diversity and Equity strategy.
Created Societal Engagement Framework to facilitate Board,
shareholder and organizational alignment on ESG issues.
Board Effectiveness
• Excellent ratings of governance processes, Board diversity and
shareholder engagement. Over half of the Board was diverse.
• Engaged with shareholders holding approximately one-third of
outstanding shares on governance issues three times each year.
Received positive feedback related to governance practices.80 2023 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Jesse Merten Mario Rizzo
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer President, Property-Liability and Former Chief
Financial Officer
Mr. Merten has primary responsibility for the management of
the company’s overall financial condition, system of internal Mr. Rizzo leads the Property-Liability businesses, which comprise
controls, capital allocation, financial reporting, investor relations, approximately 80% of Allstate’s total insurance premiums and
acquisitions and divestitures, capital market transactions, contract charges.
discontinued operations and data and analytics.
2022 Performance and Compensation
2022 Performance and Compensation In 2022, Mr. Rizzo’s annual performance was evaluated on
In 2022, Mr. Merten’s annual performance was evaluated on four criteria: overall corporate results, area of responsibility
four criteria: overall corporate results, area of responsibility results, developing and implementing long-term strategy and
results, developing and implementing long-term strategy and corporate leadership. Compensation was below target funding
corporate leadership. Compensation was below target funding with no discretion applied.
with no discretion applied.
• The annual incentive plan funded at 115% based on overall
• The annual incentive plan funded at 115% based on overall corporate results, which was reduced by 50% to 57.5% of
corporate results, which was reduced by 50% to 57.5% of target given negative net income.
target given negative net income.
• Implementing comprehensive auto profitability improvement
• Successfully transitioned to chief financial officer leadership plan with significant rate increases and expense reductions.
role. Established strong leadership at Health and Benefits.
• Successfully transitioned from chief financial officer (CFO) to
• Market-Facing Business results were largely on plan and President, Property-Liability.
slightly better than prior year.
• Leading Transformative Growth implementation, including
efforts to improve customer experience, digital capabilities,
and lower costs.
2022 Compensation
• As CFO, participated in ERRM actions to reduce investment
Weighting Actual Target Outcome
risk in response to increased inflation and decline in auto
insurance profitability.
25% Salary (Cash) $594,178 N/A N/A
14% Annual $346,233 125% 57.5% 2022 Compensation
Incentive of salary of target
(Cash)
Weighting Actual Target Outcome
Long-Term $1,462,336(1) 300% 105%
61% 21% Salary (Cash) $793,750 N/A N/A
Incentive of salary of target
Award
Annual $603,665 150% 57.5%
(Equity) 16%
Incentive of salary of target
(Cash)
Long-Term $2,419,118(1) 325% 100%
S Th al e a r c y o m (C m as i h tt ) ee approved an increase to $765,000 during 63% Incentive of salary of target
Award
2022 based on Mr. Merten's change in role, evaluation of (Equity)
his performance, level of responsibility, experience and
target compensation as compared to the peer group.
Salary (Cash)
Incentive Targets The committee approved an increase from $750,000 to
Mr. Merten's annual incentive and equity incentive targets $850,000 during 2022 based on Mr. Rizzo's change in
were increased in 2022 based on an expansion of his role. role, evaluation of his performance, level of responsibility,
experience and target compensation as compared to the
Mr. Merten's annual incentive target was 125% of salary
peer group.
(previously 90%) and his target equity incentive was 300%
of salary (previously 225%). Incentive Targets
Mr. Rizzo’s annual incentive and equity incentive targets
Annual Incentive (Cash) were increased in 2022 based on an expansion of his role.
The committee approved an annual cash incentive award Mr. Rizzo’s annual incentive target was 150% of salary
of $346,233 for Mr. Merten, which was 57.5% of target (previously 125%) and his target equity incentive was 325%
funding level. of salary (previously 300%).
Long-Term Incentive Award (Equity) Annual Incentive (Cash)
In 2022, based on its assessment of Mr. Merten’s The committee approved an annual cash incentive award
performance in delivering strong business results in 2021, of $603,665 for Mr. Rizzo, which was 57.5% of target
his job scope and added responsibilities, and market funding level.
data, the committee granted him equity awards with a
Long-Term Incentive Award (Equity)
grant date fair value of $1,462,336, which was 105% of In 2022, based on its assessment of Mr. Rizzo’s
Mr. Merten’s target equity incentive award opportunity of performance in delivering strong business results in 2021,
300% of salary and of which the committee approved in his job scope and added responsibilities, and market data,
recognition of contributions in his role prior to promotion. the committee granted him equity awards with a grant
date fair value of $2,419,118, which was Mr. Rizzo’s target
equity incentive award.
(1) Reflects the accounting value of the equity award. This is higher than the closing price on the date of grant, which is used to calculate the number of
performance-based shares awarded. See footnote 1 to the Summary Compensation Table on page 87 for more details on the Monte Carlo valuation.www.allstateproxy.com 81
Executive Compensation
John Dugenske Suren Gupta
President, Investments and Corporate Strategy President, Enterprise Solutions
Mr. Dugenske is responsible for the company’s investment Mr. Gupta leads Allstate's technology, international operations,
portfolio, financial products, corporate strategy and real estate, corporate venture capital and sourcing and
business transformation. procurement solutions.
2022 Performance and Compensation 2022 Performance and Compensation
In 2022, Mr. Dugenske’s performance was assessed based on In 2022, Mr. Gupta’s annual performance was evaluated on
four criteria: overall corporate results, area of responsibility four criteria: overall corporate results, area of responsibility
results, developing and implementing long-term strategy and results, developing and implementing long-term strategy and
corporate leadership. Compensation was below target funding corporate leadership. Compensation was below target funding
with no discretion applied. with no discretion applied.
• The annual incentive plan funded at 115% based on overall • The annual incentive plan funded at 115% based on overall
corporate results, which was reduced by 50% to 57.5% of corporate results, which was reduced by 50% to 57.5% of
target given negative net income. target given negative net income.
• Investment returns were better than benchmark reflecting • Successfully deployed new property-liability operating
proactive risk and return management and tactical product system with a minimally viable product in two states.
asset allocation.
• Effectively operated and enhanced existing technology
• Reduced overall risk profile of portfolio in conjunction ecosystems for Market-Facing Business and AOR.
with ERRM by lowering interest rate and equity exposure,
• Significant cost reductions achieved by reducing real estate
subsequently reducing investment losses by $2 billion.
footprint and expanded procurement from diverse suppliers.
• Market-Facing Business results were largely on plan and
slightly better than prior year.
• Transformative Growth support enhanced efficiency 2022 Compensation
and effectiveness.
Weighting Actual Target Outcome
25% Salary (Cash) $720,673 N/A N/A
2022 Compensation
Weighting Actual Target Outcome 13% Annual $373,163 90% 57.5%
Incentive of salary of target
(Cash)
19% Salary (Cash) $844,808 N/A N/A
Long-Term $1,819,822(1) 250% 100%
62%
17% A In n c n e u n a ti l v e $729,077 s 0 a % la ry t .5 a % rg et I A n w ce a n rd ti ve of salary of target
(Cash) (Equity)
Long-Term $2,771,234(1) 325% 100%
64% Incentive of salary of target
Award Salary (Cash)
(Equity) $725,000
Incentive Targets
Salary (Cash) Mr. Gupta's annual incentive target was 90% of salary
The committee approved an increase from $820,000 and his target equity incentive was 250% of salary.
to $850,000 during 2022 based on evaluation of his
performance, level of responsibility, experience and Annual Incentive (Cash)
target compensation as compared to the peer group. The committee approved an annual cash incentive
award of $373,163 for Mr. Gupta, which was 57.5% of
Incentive Targets target funding level.
Mr. Dugenske’s annual incentive targets did not change
in 2022. Mr. Dugenske’s annual incentive target was Long-Term Incentive Award (Equity)
In 2022, based on its assessment of Mr. Gupta’s
150% of salary and his target equity incentive was 325%
performance in delivering strong business results in
of salary.
2021, his job scope, and market data, the committee
granted him equity awards with a grant date fair value of
Annual Incentive (Cash)
$1,819,822, which was Mr. Gupta’s target equity incentive
The committee approved an annual cash incentive
award opportunity of 250% of salary due to progress
award of $729,077 for Mr. Dugenske, which was 57.5% of
made toward Transformative Growth goals.
target funding level.
Long-Term Incentive Award (Equity)
In 2022, based on its assessment of Mr. Dugenske’s
performance in delivering strong business results in
2021, his job scope, and market data, the committee
granted him equity awards with a grant date fair value
of $2,771,234, which was Mr. Dugenske’s target equity
incentive award opportunity of 325% of salary due to
progress made toward Transformative Growth goals.
(1) Reflects the accounting value of the equity award. This is higher than the closing price on the date of grant, which is used to calculate the number of
performance-based shares awarded. See footnote 1 to the Summary Compensation Table on page 87 for more details on the Monte Carlo valuation.82 2023 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Robert Toohey Don Civgin
Executive Vice President and Chief Human Former Vice Chair and CEO, Protection Products
Resources Officer and Services
Mr. Toohey has responsibility for Allstate's human resources Prior to his retirement, Mr. Civgin was vice chair with overall
activities and ensures that the company attracts, retains and corporate leadership responsibility and operational oversight
cultivates a diverse workforce that will help the company of Allstate’s Protection Services, which includes Allstate Dealer
succeed. He also oversaw the law and regulation department Services, Allstate Roadside, Allstate Identity Protection, Arity,
until Ms. DeBiase filled Ms. Ferguson's role. Allstate Protection Plans and Avail.
2022 Performance and Compensation 2022 Performance and Compensation
In 2022, Mr. Toohey’s annual performance was evaluated on In 2022, Mr. Civgin’s performance was assessed based on
four criteria: overall corporate results, area of responsibility four criteria: overall corporate results, area of responsibility
results, developing and implementing long-term strategy and results, developing and implementing long-term strategy and
corporate leadership. Compensation was below target funding corporate leadership. Compensation was at target funding with
with no discretion applied. no discretion applied.
• The annual incentive plan funded at 115% based on overall • The annual incentive plan funded at 115% based on overall
corporate results, which was reduced by 50% to 57.5% of corporate results, which was reduced by 50% to 57.5% of
target given negative net income. target given negative net income.
• Significantly improved human resources operating • Strong operating results in Market-Facing Businesses,
performance while rebuilding the leadership team. including exceptional growth of Allstate Protection Plans and
• Advanced talent development by improving diversity Dealer Services.
representation across enterprise and enhancing culture. • Strong enterprise leadership on Transformative Growth,
Employee engagement remained strong. strategy and organizational effectiveness.
• Developed and implemented plan to enhance organization
effectiveness to support Transformative Growth.
2022 Compensation
Weighting Actual Target Outcome
2022 Compensation
9% Salary (Cash) $362,998 N/A N/A
Weighting Actual Target Outcome
8% Annual $297,742 175% 57.5%
16% Salary (Cash) $468,750 N/A N/A Incentive of salary of target
(Cash)
9% Annual $247,232 90% 57.5%
Incentive of salary of target 83% Long-Term $3,275,601(1) 350% 100%
(Cash) Incentive
Award
Long-Term $2,178,876(1)(2) 225% 195% (Equity)
75%
Incentive of salary of target
Award
(Equity) Salary (Cash)
The committee did not adjust Mr. Civgin’s salary
of $900,000.
Salary (Cash)
$625,000
Incentive Targets
Mr. Civgin’s annual incentive targets did not change
Incentive Targets
in 2022. Mr. Civgin’s annual incentive target was 175%
Mr. Toohey's annual incentive target was 90% of salary
of salary and his target equity incentive was 350%
and his target equity incentive opportunity was 225%
of salary.
of salary.
Annual Incentive (Cash)
Annual Incentive (Cash)
The committee approved an annual cash incentive
The committee approved an annual cash incentive
award of $297,742 for Mr. Civgin, which was 57.5% of
award of $247,232 for Mr. Toohey, which was 57.5% of
target funding level.
target funding level.
Long-Term Incentive Award (Equity)
Long-Term Incentive Award (Equity)
In 2022, based on its assessment of Mr. Civgin’s
In 2022, the committee granted Mr. Toohey a pro-rated
performance in delivering strong business results in
target award based on his date of hire using the standard
2021, his job scope, and market data, the committee
mix of options and PSAs and also a sign-on grant of RSUs
granted him equity awards with a grant date fair value
valued at $1,000,000 with an aggregate grant date fair
of $3,275,601, which was Mr. Civgin’s target equity
value of $2,178,876, which was 195% of Mr. Toohey’s target
incentive award opportunity of 350% of salary due to
equity incentive award opportunity of 225% of salary.
progress made toward Transformative Growth goals.
(1) Reflects the accounting value of the equity award. This is higher than the closing price on the date of grant, which is used to calculate the number of
performance-based shares awarded. See footnote 1 to the Summary Compensation Table on page 87 for more details on the Monte Carlo valuation.
(2) Equity was the result of a sign-on grant. Outcome reflects grant as a percent of prorated target.www.allstateproxy.com 83
Executive Compensation
Glenn T. Shapiro
Former President, Property-Liability
Prior to his retirement, Mr. Shapiro led the Property-Liability
businesses, which comprise approximately 80% of Allstate’s total
insurance premiums and contract charges.
2022 Performance and Compensation
In addition to Mr. Civgin's retirement, Allstate had other senior
leadership changes in 2022, including the retirement of
Mr. Shapiro and the death of Ms. Ferguson in April. To stagger
these leadership transitions, we asked Mr. Shapiro to remain at
the company until a leadership transition could be executed with
minimal impact on near-term performance, and indicated that we
would consider this in his compensation. No formal agreement
was made and Mr. Shapiro was employed for nine months of the
year. As a result, he was awarded a separation payment estimated
to be equal to his pro-rated annual cash incentive award for those
nine months, totaling $1,100,000, and continued vesting of the
2020 PSA grant, for which Mr. Shapiro had served approximately
92% of the 2020-2022 performance period. Upon his retirement,
Mr. Shapiro forfeited all other unvested equity granted from 2020
to 2022, including in-the money stock options valued at $1,023,249
and PSAs with a target value of $3,817,965, and agreed to a non-
compete and solicitation agreement through February 2024.
2022 Compensation
Weighting Actual(1) Target Outcome
21% Salary (Cash) $733,323 N/A N/A
Annual — 150% 0%
0%
Incentive of salary of target
(Cash)
Long-Term $2,838,840 325% Forfeited
79%
Incentive of salary
Award
(Equity)
Salary (Cash)
The committee approved an increase from $840,000
to $870,000 during 2022 based on evaluation of his
performance, level of responsibility, experience and
target compensation as compared to the peer group.
Incentive Targets
Mr. Shapiro’s annual incentive targets did not change in
2022. Mr. Shapiro’s annual incentive target was 150% of
salary and his target equity incentive opportunity was
325% of salary.
Annual Incentive (Cash)
The committee approved a separation payment of
$1,100,000 for Mr. Shapiro, to be paid in 2023, which
represents the pro-rated estimated annual incentive
payout he would have received for his performance at
the time of his departure from the company.
Long-Term Incentive Award (Equity)
In 2022, based on its assessment of Mr. Shapiro’s
performance in delivering strong business results in
2021, his job scope, and market data, the committee
granted him equity awards with a grant date fair value
of $2,838,840. However, given Mr. Shapiro's retirement
from the company during 2022, he forfeited this
equity grant.
(1) Actual compensation is reflective of Mr. Shapiro's departure from the company effective September 30, 2022, including a separation payment equal to his pro-
rated annual cash incentive award estimated at the time of his retirement. He forfeited all unvested equity, including the 2022 long-term incentive award.84 2023 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Other Elements of Compensation
To remain competitive with other employers and to attract, retain, and motivate highly talented executives and other
employees, we offer the benefits listed in the following table.
Named Other Officers and All Full-time and Regular
Benefit or Perquisite Executives Certain Managers Part-time Employees
401(k)(1) and defined benefit pension
Supplemental retirement benefit
Health and welfare benefits(2)
Supplemental long-term disability
Deferred compensation
Financial planning services(3)
Perquisite allowance
Personal use of aircraft, ground transportation, and mobile devices(4)
Tickets to Allstate events(5)
(1) Allstate contributed 100% of the first 2% of eligible pay contributed plus 50% of the next 4% (up to 4% total).
(2) Including medical, dental, vision, life, accidental death and dismemberment, long-term disability, and group legal insurance. For named executives and
other officers, Allstate offers an executive physical program.
(3) Financial planning services are available to senior executives.
(4) The Board encourages the CEO to use our corporate aircraft when it improves his efficiency in managing the company, even if it is for personal purposes.
Personal usage is counted as taxable compensation. In limited circumstances approved by the CEO, other senior executives are permitted to use our
corporate aircraft for personal purposes. In addition to, and separate from, the use of corporate aircraft for personal use, Mr. Wilson can utilize the
company’s arrangements with FlexJet and pay FlexJet for per hour costs at Allstate’s rates. Ground transportation is available to senior executives. Mobile
devices are available to senior executives, other officers, and certain managers and employees depending on their job responsibilities.
(5) Tickets to Allstate-sponsored events or the Allstate Arena are offered as recognition for service.
Retirement Benefits
Each named executive participates in two different defined benefit pension plans. The Allstate Retirement Plan (ARP) is a tax
qualified defined benefit pension plan available to all of our regular full-time and part-time employees who meet certain age
and service requirements. The ARP provides an assured retirement income based on an employee’s level of compensation
and length of service at no cost to the employee. As the ARP is a tax qualified plan, federal tax law limits (1) the amount of an
individual’s compensation that can be used to calculate plan benefits and (2) the total amount of benefits payable to a plan
participant on an annual basis. For certain employees, these limits may result in a lower benefit under the ARP than would have
been payable otherwise. Therefore, the Supplemental Retirement Income Plan (SRIP) is used to provide ARP-eligible employees
whose compensation or benefit amount exceeds the federal limits with an additional defined benefit in an amount equal to what
would have been payable under the ARP if the federal limits did not exist. Effective January 1, 2014, Allstate modified its defined
benefit pension plans so that thereafter, all eligible employees earn pension benefits under a new cash balance formula.
On April 5, 2022, Mr. Civgin announced his retirement as Vice Chair and CEO, Protection Products and Services, effective
May 1, 2022. Mr. Civgin was retirement eligible under the terms of the Allstate Retirement Plan and the 2019 Equity
Incentive Plan. Accordingly, upon his retirement, Mr. Civgin was eligible to receive (1) a pro-rated annual incentive award in
the amount of $297,742 for 2022 performance, (2) continued vesting of all outstanding target PSAs granted in 2020 and
2021, and (3) continued vesting of a pro-rated portion of the outstanding target PSAs granted in 2022. All PSAs are subject
to actual company performance during the full performance period.
Change in Control and Post-Termination Benefits
Consistent with our compensation objectives, we offer these benefits to attract, motivate, and retain executives. Change in
control benefits and post-termination benefits are designed to maintain alignment between the interests of our executives
and our shareholders in the event of a sale or merger of the company.
The following summarizes Allstate’s change in control benefits for the executive officers:
• The amount of cash severance payable to the CEO and other named executive officers is two times the sum of base
salary and target annual incentive.
• The CIC Plan does not include excise tax gross ups or a lump sum cash pension enhancement.
• In order to receive the cash severance benefits under the CIC Plan, a participant must have been terminated (other than forwww.allstateproxy.com 85
Executive Compensation
cause, death, or disability) or the participant must have terminated employment for good reason (such as adverse changes
in the terms or conditions of employment, including a material reduction in base compensation, a material change in
authority, duties, or responsibilities, or a material change in job location) within two years following a change in control.
• Long-term equity incentive awards vest on an accelerated basis due to a change in control only if the participant has
been terminated (other than for cause, death, or disability) or the participant terminated employment for good reason (as
defined above) within two years following a change in control.
The change in control and post-termination arrangements that are described in the Potential Payments as a Result of
Termination or Change in Control section on pages 97-98 are not provided exclusively to the named executives. A larger
group of management employees is eligible to receive many of the post-termination benefits described in that section.
Compensation Governance Practices
Equity Ownership Requirements
Instituted in 1996, stock ownership requirements oblige each of the named executives to own Allstate common stock
worth a multiple of base salary to link management and shareholders’ interests. Senior executives, other than the CEO,
are required to own Allstate common stock worth four times their base salary. The CEO’s requirement is eight times
his base salary. The below chart shows the salary multiple requirement and the equity holdings that count toward the
requirement.
The current stock ownership requirements apply to 71 of our senior executives and other officers as of December 31, 2022,
and require these executives to hold 75% of net shares received as a result of equity compensation awards until their salary
multiple requirements are met.
STOCK OWNERSHIP AS MULTIPLE OF BASE SALARY AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2022
Stock Ownership Vested in the
Money Option
Named Executive Requirement Actual Value (after-tax)
Mr. Wilson 8 92.6 42.9
Mr. Merten 4 3.1 1.6
Mr. Rizzo 4 8.5 3.6
Mr. Dugenske 4 13.1 1.3
Mr. Gupta 4 15.6 11.4
Mr. Toohey 4 1.6 0
What Does Not Count Toward
What Counts Toward the Requirement
the Requirement
% Allstate shares owned personally and beneficially X Unexercised stock options
% Shares held in the Allstate 401(k) Savings Plan X Unvested performance stock awards
% Unvested restricted stock units
Policies on Hedging and Pledging Securities
We have a policy that prohibits all officers, directors, and employees from engaging in transactions in securities issued by
Allstate or any of its subsidiaries that might be considered speculative and engaging in derivative or other transactions
designed to hedge or offset any decrease in market value of the securities held by them, such as selling short or buying or
selling options, puts or calls, and entering into prepaid variable forward contracts, equity swaps or collars. We also have a
policy that prohibits senior executives and directors from pledging Allstate securities as collateral for a loan or holding such
securities in a margin account, unless an exception is granted by the Chair or Lead Director (or by the Lead Director in the
case of a request by the Chair).86 2023 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Clawback of Compensation
Equity awards granted beginning in 2020 and annual cash incentive awards for performance years beginning in 2020 are
subject to clawback in accordance with the clawback policy approved by the committee. The clawback policy provides for the
recovery of certain equity awards and annual cash incentive awards to executive officers and other executive vice presidents.
If performance results are later subject to a downward adjustment as a result of a material financial restatement, irrespective
of cause, then the paid awards are recalculated with revised results with the compensation overpayment subject to clawback.
The clawback policy also provides for the ability to recover equity and annual cash incentive awards in certain circumstances
if an executive is terminated for improper conduct that leads to a material adverse impact on the reputation of, or a material
adverse economic consequence for, the company.
Compensation Risk
Allstate's compensation policies and practices are structured to reward employees for successfully executing the
company’s strategies and annual operating goals while adhering to our risk and return principles. Compensation plans
provide a balanced mix of cash and equity through annual and long-term incentives that align with short- and long-
term business goals. No one, regardless of eligibility, is guaranteed an award under the annual cash incentive program.
Additionally, multiple performance measures are utilized that correlate with long-term shareholder value creation and
diversify the risk associated with any single performance indicator.
Compensation Committee Report
The committee has reviewed and discussed with management the Compensation Discussion and Analysis contained on
pages 62-86 of this proxy statement. Based on such review and discussions, the committee recommended to the Board
that the Compensation Discussion and Analysis be included in this proxy statement.
The Compensation and Human Capital Committee
Perry M. Traquina (Chair) Richard T. Hume Margaret M. Keane
Andrea Redmond Judith A. SprieserExecutive Compensation
www.allstateproxy.com 87
Executive Compensation
Summary Compensation Table
The following table summarizes the compensation of the named executives for the last three fiscal years. However, for
Messrs. Merten, Gupta and Toohey, only the last fiscal year is shown since this is their first year as a named executive.
Change in
Pension
Value and Total
Non-qualified Without
Non-Equity Deferred Change in
Stock Option Incentive Plan Compensation All Other Pension
Name and Salary Bonus Awards Awards Compensation Earnings Compensation Total Value
Principal Position Year ($) ($) ($)(1) ($)(2) ($) ($)(3) ($)(4) ($) ($)(5)
Thomas J. Wilson 2022 1,385,000 — 6,868,175 4,293,494 2,389,125 — 69,207 15,005,001 15,005,001
Chair, President, 2021 1,378,943 — 6,335,804 4,304,994 6,286,039 697,929 63,211 19,066,920 18,368,991
and Chief Executive
2020 1,375,962 — 7,312,094 4,404,993 4,889,565 3,116,842 26,930 21,126,386 18,009,544
Officer
Jesse Merten 2022 594,178 — 905,628 556,708 346,233 22,648 25,760 2,451,155 2,428,507
Executive Vice
President and Chief
Financial Officer
Mario Rizzo 2022 793,750 — 1,490,699 928,419 603,665 — 26,250 3,842,783 3,842,783
President, Property- 2021 748,616 — 1,349,579 917,031 1,478,500 — 25,790 4,519,516 4,519,516
Liability
2020 752,039 — 1,434,229 863,998 1,250,000 516,698 26,112 4,843,076 4,326,378
John Dugenske 2022 844,808 — 1,705,240 1,065,994 729,077 86,745 25,760 4,457,624 4,370,879
President, 2021 816,539 — 1,580,935 1,074,195 1,861,129 68,382 25,160 5,426,340 5,357,958
Investments and
2020 810,577 — 1,672,397 1,007,507 1,410,109 59,411 25,482 4,985,483 4,926,072
Corporate Strategy
Suren Gupta 2022 720,673 — 1,119,824 699,998 373,163 63,711 37,510 3,014,879 2,951,168
President,
Enterprise
Solutions
Robert Toohey 2022 468,750 — 1,678,865 500,011 247,232 — 70,466 2,965,324 2,965,324
Executive Vice
President and Chief
Human Resources
Officer
Don Civgin 2022 362,998 — 2,015,605 1,259,996 297,742 109,236 26,425 4,072,002 3,962,766
Former Vice 2021 900,000 — 1,919,000 1,303,914 2,392,401 119,623 35,327 6,670,265 6,550,642
Chair and CEO,
2020 905,769 — 1,952,092 1,175,995 1,810,861 113,798 28,664 5,987,179 5,873,381
Protection Products
and Services
Glenn T. Shapiro 2022 733,323 — 1,746,831 1,092,009 — 80,130 32,084 3,684,377 3,604,247
Former President, 2021 836,539 — 1,621,454 1,101,729 1,906,680 75,720 34,593 5,576,715 5,500,995
Property-Liability
2020 828,077 — 1,683,122 1,014,003 1,473,089 67,206 34,382 5,099,879 5,032,673
(1) This amount reflects an accounting expense and does not correspond to actual value that will be realized by the named executives. The value of PSAs
assumes target-level performance, which is the probable achievement level of the performance conditions. The number of PSAs granted in 2022 to
each named executive is provided in the Grants of Plan-Based Awards table on page 89. The value of the PSAs granted in 2022 if maximum corporate
performance were to be achieved is as follows: Mr. Wilson $11,376,521, Mr. Merten $1,490,193, Mr. Rizzo $2,465,549, Mr. Dugenske $2,824,578, Mr. Gupta
$1,854,889 and Mr. Toohey $1,098,810. Mr. Civgin’s prorated outstanding PSAs will remain outstanding and eligible to vest upon completion of the original
performance period based on actual company performance, the value of the prorated PSAs granted in 2022 if maximum corporate performance were to be
achieved is $667,691. Mr. Shapiro forfeited the 2022 PSA grant in connection with his departure from the company.
The aggregate grant date fair value of PSAs granted in 2022, 2021, and 2020, is computed in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718 (ASC 718). The fair value of PSAs that do not include a market-based condition is based on the final closing
price of Allstate’s common stock on the grant date, which reflects the payment of expected future dividends. The fair value of the PSA component with a
market-based condition is measured on the grant date using a Monte Carlo simulation model. The market-based condition measures the company’s TSR
relative to the TSR of peer companies, expressed in terms of the company’s TSR percentile rank among the peer companies, over a three calendar-year
performance period. The Monte Carlo simulation model uses a risk-neutral framework to model future stock price movements based upon the risk-free rate
of return at the time of grant, volatilities of the company and the peer companies, and expected term assumed to be equal to the remaining measurement8888 2023 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
period. The market value in part reflects the payment of expected future dividends.
For the year ended December 31, 2022, the 2022 PSA component with a market-based condition assumes a risk-free rate of 1.7%, volatility of 30.4%,
average peer volatility of 34.2% and an expected term of 2.9 years. See Note 19 to our audited financial statements for 2022.
(2) The aggregate grant date fair value of option awards is computed in accordance with FASB ASC 718. The fair value of each option award is estimated on the
grant date using a binomial lattice model and the assumptions (see Note 19 to our audited financial statements for 2022) as set forth in the following table:
2022 2021 2020
Weighted average expected term 5.9 years 7.5 years 6.1 years
Expected volatility 19.8%-29.9% 16.5%-28.8% 16.3%-37.1%
Weighted average volatility 23.2% 23.0% 17.6%
Expected dividends 2.5%-3.0% 2.0%-3.0% 1.6%-2.4%
Weighted average expected dividends 2.8% 3.1% 1.8%
Risk-free rate 0%-4.8% 0%-1.7% 0.1%-1.8%
This amount reflects an accounting expense and does not correspond to actual value that will be realized by the named executives. The number of options
granted in 2022 to each named executive is provided in the Grants of Plan-Based Awards table on page 89.
(3) Amounts reflect the aggregate increase in actuarial value of the pension benefits as set forth in the Pension Benefits table, accrued during 2022, 2021,
and 2020. These are benefits under the Allstate Retirement Plan (ARP) and the Supplemental Retirement Income Plan (SRIP). Non-qualified deferred
compensation earnings are not reflected since our Deferred Compensation Plan does not provide above-market earnings. The pension plan measurement
date is December 31. (See Note 18 to our audited financial statements for 2022.) For 2022, the change in pension value was negative $3,130,051 for
Mr. Wilson and negative $726,008 for Mr. Rizzo. For 2021, the change in pension value was negative $35,112 for Mr. Rizzo. These negative numbers are
not reflected in the amounts disclosed above.
The following table reflects the respective change in the actuarial value of the benefits provided to the named executives in 2022:
ARP SRIP
Name ($) ($)
Mr. Wilson (243,049) (2,887,002)
Mr. Merten 2,867 19,781
Mr. Rizzo (509,916) (216,092)
Mr. Dugenske 9,725 77,020
Mr. Gupta 11,650 52,061
Mr. Toohey - -
Mr. Civgin 18,723 90,513
Mr. Shapiro 9,510 70,620
Interest rates and other assumptions can have a significant impact on the change in pension value from one year to another.
(4) The following table describes the incremental cost of other benefits provided in 2022 that are included in the “All Other Compensation” column.
Personal Use 401(k) Other(c) Total All Other
of Aircraft(a) Match(b) (d) Compensation
Name ($) ($) ($) ($)
Mr. Wilson 42,877 12,200 14,130 69,207
Mr. Merten 0 12,200 13,560 25,760
Mr. Rizzo 0 12,200 14,050 26,250
Mr. Dugenske 0 12,200 13,560 25,760
Mr. Gupta 0 12,200 25,310 37,510
Mr. Toohey 0 12,200 58,266 70,466
Mr. Civgin 0 12,200 14,225 26,425
Mr. Shapiro 0 12,200 19,884 32,084
(a) When applicable, the amount reported for personal use of aircraft is based on the incremental cost method, which is calculated based on Allstate’s
average variable costs per flight hour. Variable costs include fuel, maintenance, on-board catering, landing/ramp fees, and other miscellaneous variable
costs. The total annual variable costs are divided by the annual number of flight hours flown by the aircraft to derive an average variable cost per flight
hour. This average variable cost per flight hour is then multiplied by the flight hours flown for personal use to derive the incremental cost. This method of
calculating the incremental cost excludes fixed costs that do not change based on usage, such as pilots’ and other employees’ salaries, costs incurred in
purchasing the aircraft, and non-trip-related hangar expenses. Separate from the use of corporate aircraft for personal use, Mr. Wilson also utilized the
company’s arrangements with FlexJet and paid FlexJet directly for costs.
(b) Each of the named executives participated in our 401(k) plan during 2022. The amount shown is the amount allocated to their accounts as employer
matching contributions. Mr. Toohey will not be vested in the employer matching contribution until he has completed two years of vesting service.
(c) “Other” consists of personal benefits and perquisites related to mobile devices, financial planning, ground transportation, executive physical related
items and supplemental long-term disability coverage. There were no incremental costs for the use of mobile devices or executive physical related
items. We provide supplemental long-term disability coverage to all regular full- and part-time employees who participate in the long-term disability
plan and whose annual earnings exceed the level that produces the maximum monthly benefit provided by the long-term disability plan. This coverage
is self-insured (funded and paid for by Allstate when obligations are incurred). No obligations for the named executives were incurred in 2022, and
therefore, no incremental cost is reflected in the table.
(d) Additionally, in connection with his hiring in 2022, Mr. Toohey was paid a relocation allowance of approximately $45,246 in taxable housing, moving and
other expenses associated with his relocation to our corporate headquarters in Chicago, Illinois. The payment of these relocation expenses mitigates
personal loss and distraction when we ask our executives to move for the purpose of leading and promoting the continued success of the company and/
or our business units.
(5) We have included an additional column to show total compensation minus the change in pension value. The amounts reported in this column may differ
substantially from, and are not a substitute for, the amounts reported in the “Total” column required under SEC rules. The change in pension value is
subject to several external variables, including interest rates, that are not related to company or individual performance and may differ significantly based
on the formula under which the benefits were earned.www.allstateproxy.com 89
Executive Compensation
Grants of Plan-Based Awards at Fiscal Year-end 2022
The following table provides information about awards granted to our named executives during fiscal year 2022.
All Other
Option All Other
Awards: Stock
Estimated Possible Estimated Future
Number of Exercise or Awards:
Payouts Under Non-Equity Payouts Under Equity Grant Date
Securities Base Price number of
Incentive Plan Awards(2) Incentive Plan Awards(3) Fair Value ($)(5)
Underlying of Option shares of
Grant Plan Threshold Target Maximum Threshold Target Maximum Options Awards stock or Stock Option
Name Date Awards(1) ($) ($) ($) (#) (#) (#) (#) ($/Sh)(4) units (#) Awards Awards
Mr. Wilson — Annual cash 2,077,500 4,155,000 10,000,000
Incentive
02/17/2022 PSAs 0 52,513 105,026 6,868,175
02/17/2022 Stock options 204,647 122.64 4,293,494
Mr. Merten — Annual cash 301,072 602,145 2,408,579
incentive
02/17/2022 PSAs 0 5,871 11,742 767,868
10/05/2022 PSAs 0 865 1,730 137,760
02/17/2022 Stock options 22,879 122.64 480,001
10/05/2022 Stock options 2,602 133.00 76,707
Mr. Rizzo — Annual cash 524,926 1,049,853 4,199,411
incentive
02/17/2022 PSAs 0 11,008 22,016 1,439,736
10/05/2022 PSAs 0 320 640 50,963
02/17/2022 Stock options 42,898 122.64 900,000
10/05/2022 Stock options 964 133.00 28,419
Mr. Dugenske — Annual cash 633,980 1,267,961 5,071,842
incentive
02/17/2022 PSAs 0 13,038 26,076 1,705,240
02/17/2022 Stock options 50,810 122.64 1,065,994
Mr. Gupta — Annual cash 324,490 648,980 2,595,920
incentive
02/17/2022 PSAs 0 8,562 17,124 1,119,824
02/17/2022 Stock options 33,365 122.64 699,998
Mr. Toohey Annual cash 214,985 429,970 1,719,878
incentive
04/05/2022 PSAs 0 4,372 8,744 678,797
04/05/2022 Stock options 19,298 137.24 500,011
04/05/2022 Restricted 7,287 1,000,068
stock awards
Mr. Civgin Annual cash 258,906 517,813 2,071,251
incentive
02/17/2022 PSAs 0 15,411 30,822 2,015,605
02/17/2022 Stock options 60,057 122.64 1,259,996
Mr. Shapiro Annual cash 0 0 0
incentive
02/17/2022 PSAs 0 13,356 26,712 1,746,831
02/17/2022 Stock options 52,050 122.64 1,092,009
(1) Awards granted under the Annual Executive Incentive Plan and the 2019 Equity Incentive Plan. An explanation of the amount of salary and bonus in
proportion to total compensation can be found under the Compensation Elements and Compensation Decisions for 2022 captions on pages 70 and 79-83.
(2) The amounts in these columns consist of the threshold, target, and maximum annual cash incentive awards for the named executives. The threshold
amount for each named executive is 50% of target, as the minimum amount payable (subject to individual performance) if threshold performance is
achieved. If the threshold is not achieved, the payment to the named executives would be zero. The target amount is based upon achievement of the
performance measures listed under the Annual Cash Incentive Awards caption on page 71. The maximum amount is equal to 200% of target plus an
additional individual performance factor of 200% of plan funding to recognize extraordinary performance, subject to the maximum of $10 million that may
be paid to any participant for any fiscal year under the Annual Executive Incentive Plan. For a description of the ranges of performance established by the
committee for the 2022 annual incentive, see page 74.
(3) The amounts shown in these columns reflect the threshold, target, and maximum PSAs for the named executives. The threshold amount for each named
executive is 0% payout. The target and maximum amounts are based upon achievement of the performance measures listed under the PSA Ranges of
Performance caption on page 77. Mr. Shapiro forfeited his 2022 grant upon his departure from the company.
(4) The exercise price of each option is equal to the closing sale price on the NYSE on the grant date or, if there was no such sale on the grant date, then on the
last previous day on which there was a sale.
(5) Related to the February 17, 2022 grants, the aggregate grant date fair value of the PSAs was $130.79 and for stock option awards was $20.98. Related to the
April 5, 2022 grants, the aggregate grant date fair value of the PSAs was $155.26 and for stock option awards was $25.91. Related to the October 5, 2022 grants,
the aggregate grant date fair value of the PSAs was $159.26 and for stock option awards was $29.48. Aggregate grant date fair value is computed in accordance
with FASB ASC 718. The assumptions used in the valuation are discussed in footnotes 1 and 2 to the Summary Compensation Table on pages 87-88.9900 2023 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Performance Stock Awards (“PSAs”)
PSAs represent our promise to transfer shares of common stock in the future if certain performance measures are met.
For the awards granted in 2022, the actual number of PSAs that vest will vary from 0% to 200% of target PSAs based
on Average Performance Net Income ROE (50%), Relative TSR (30%) and Items in Force (20%) results for a three-year
measurement period. For a definition of how those measures are calculated, see pages 102-103. Vested PSAs will be
converted into shares of Allstate common stock and dividend equivalents accrued on these shares will be paid in cash. No
dividend equivalents will be paid prior to vesting. PSAs will vest following the end of the three-year performance cycle if the
performance conditions are met, subject to continued employment (other than in the event of death, disability, retirement,
or a qualifying termination following a change in control).
Stock Options
Stock Options represent an opportunity to buy shares of Allstate common stock at a fixed exercise price at a future date.
Stock Options align the interests of executives with long-term shareholder value since the stock price must appreciate
from the grant date for the executives to earn compensation.
Under our shareholder-approved equity incentive plan, the exercise price cannot be less than the closing price of a share
on the grant date. Stock option repricing is not permitted.
All Stock Option awards have been made in the form of non-qualified stock options. The options granted to the named
executives become exercisable over three years. One-third of the stock options become exercisable on the anniversary of
the grant date for each of the three years subject to continued employment through each anniversary date, except in the
event of retirement, death, disability or a qualifying termination following change in control. All of the options expire ten
years from the grant date, unless an earlier date has been approved by the committee in connection with certain change in
control situations or other special circumstances such as termination, death, or disability.www.allstateproxy.com 91
Executive Compensation
Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-end 2022
The following table summarizes the outstanding equity awards of the named executives as of December 31, 2022.
Option Awards(1) Stock Awards
Equity
Equity Incentive
Incentive Plan Awards:
Plan Awards: Market or
Market Number of Payout Value
Number of Number of Number Value of Unearned of Unearned
Securities Securities of Shares Shares or Shares, Shares, Units,
Underlying Underlying or Units of Units of Units, or or Other
Unexercised Unexercised Option Stock That Stock That Other Rights Rights that
Options Options Exercise Option Stock Have Not Have Not that Have Have Not
Option Exercisable Unexercisable Price Expiration Award Vested Vested Not Vested Vested
Name Grant Date (#)(2) (#)(2) ($) Date Grant Date (#)(3) ($)(4) (#)(5) ($)(4)
Mr. Wilson 02/18/2014 309,237 52.18 02/18/2024
02/18/2015 294,494 70.71 02/18/2025
02/11/2016 295,324 62.32 02/11/2026
02/09/2017 248,447 78.35 02/09/2027
02/22/2018 227,406 92.80 02/22/2028
02/08/2019 269,746 92.46 02/08/2029
02/19/2020 160,473 80,237 124.26 02/19/2030 02/19/2020 65,937 8,941,057
02/18/2021 92,401 184,804 105.08 02/18/2031 02/18/2021 122,906 16,666,054
02/17/2022 0 204,647 122.64 02/17/2032 02/17/2022 105,026 14,241,526
Mr. Merten 01/04/2018 700 100.80 01/04/2028
02/22/2018 9,208 92.80 02/22/2028
02/08/2019 29,451 92.46 02/08/2029
02/19/2020 13,114 6,558 124.26 02/19/2030 02/19/2020 5,389 730,748
02/18/2021 9,729 19,459 105.08 02/18/2031 02/18/2021 12,942 1,754,935
02/17/2022 0 22,879 122.64 02/17/2032 02/17/2022 11,742 1,592,215
10/05/2022 0 2,602 133.00 10/05/2032 10/05/2022 1,730 234,588
Mr. Rizzo 02/22/2018 49,296 92.80 02/22/2028
02/08/2019 56,225 92.46 02/08/2029
02/19/2020 31,475 15,738 124.26 02/19/2030 02/19/2020 12,933 1,753,715
02/18/2021 19,683 39,366 105.08 02/18/2031 02/18/2021 26,180 3,550,008
02/17/2022 0 42,898 122.64 02/17/2032 02/17/2022 22,016 2,985,370
10/05/2022 0 964 133.00 10/05/2032 10/05/2022 640 86,784
Mr. Dugenske 02/08/2019 20,081 92.46 02/08/2029
02/19/2020 36,703 18,352 124.26 02/19/2030 02/19/2020 15,081 2,044,984
02/18/2021 23,056 46,113 105.08 02/18/2031 02/18/2021 30,668 4,158,581
02/17/2022 0 50,810 122.64 02/17/2032 02/17/2022 26,076 3,535,906
Mr. Gupta 02/18/2014 20,241 52.18 02/18/2024
02/18/2015 45,775 70.71 02/18/2025
02/11/2016 48,400 62.32 02/11/2026
02/09/2017 41,408 78.35 02/09/2027
02/22/2018 38,732 92.80 02/22/2028
02/08/2019 42,838 92.46 02/08/2029
02/19/2020 24,044 12,022 124.26 02/19/2030 02/19/2020 9,879 1,339,592
02/18/2021 14,978 29,956 105.08 02/18/2031 02/18/2021 19,992 2,701,432
02/17/2022 0 33,365 122.64 02/17/2032 02/17/2022 17,124 2,322,014
Mr. Toohey 04/05/2022 0 19,298 137.24 04/05/2032 04/05/2022 7,287 988,117 8,744 1,185,686
Mr. Civgin(6) 02/19/2020 42,841 21,421 124.26 04/30/2027 02/19/2020 17,603 2,386,967
02/18/2021 27,987 55,974 105.08 04/30/2027 02/18/2021 37,226 5,047,846
02/17/2022 0 12,011 122.64 04/30/2027 02/17/2022 6,164 835,838
Mr. Shapiro(7) 02/19/2020 0 0 124.26 12/30/2022 02/19/2020 13,223 1,793,039
02/18/2021 0 0 105.08 12/30/2022 02/18/2021 0 0
02/17/2022 0 0 122.64 12/30/2022 02/17/2022 0 09922 2023 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
(1) The options vest over three years: one-third will become exercisable on the anniversary of the grant date for each of the three years. The exercise price of
each option is equal to the closing price of Allstate’s common stock on the grant date.
(2) The aggregate value and aggregate number of exercisable and unexercisable in-the-money options as of December 31, 2022, for each of the named
executives are as follows:
Exercisable Unexercisable
Aggregate Aggregate Aggregate Aggregate
Number Value Number Value
Name (#) ($) (#) ($)
Mr. Wilson 1,897,528 106,780,861 469,688 9,202,331
Mr. Merten 62,202 2,134,620 51,498 971,533
Mr. Rizzo 156,679 5,493,067 98,966 1,938,384
Mr. Dugenske 79,840 1,986,175 115,275 2,273,978
Mr. Gupta 276,416 14,811,752 75,343 1,482,997
Mr. Toohey 0 0 0 0
Mr. Civgin 70,828 1,339,980 89,406 2,106,903
Mr. Shapiro 0 0 0 0
(3) The PSAs vested in one installment on the third anniversary of the grant date, February 19, 2023.
(4) Amount is based on the closing price of our common stock of $135.60 on December 30, 2022.
(5) The PSAs vest in one installment on the third anniversary of the grant date. The number of shares that ultimately vest may range from 0 to 200% of the
target depending on actual performance during the three-year performance period. For a description of the PSA program and the performance measures
used, see pages 75-78 and page 90. The number of PSAs reflected in this column for the 2021 and 2022 awards is the number of shares that would vest if
the maximum level of performance is achieved. Final payouts under the PSAs will not be known until the respective performance period is completed.
(6) Mr. Civgin retired on May 1, 2022 and was entitled to retirement benefits under Allstate’s policies. Accordingly, upon his retirement, his then-outstanding
PSAs will continue to vest and be delivered on the normal settlement schedule. Amounts earned on his 2021 and 2022 PSA grants will be determined based
on the whole performance period and are shown above at maximum payout. Actual amounts earned for the 2020 PSAs were determined by the committee
in the first quarter of 2023.
(7) Mr. Shapiro left the company effective September 30, 2022. At that time he received continued vesting of a pro-rated portion of the target PSAs granted in
2020. He forfeited PSAs granted in 2021 and 2022 and all remaining options.
Option Exercises and Stock Vested During 2022
The following table summarizes the options exercised by the named executives during 2022 and the PSAs or restricted
stock units that vested during 2022.
Option Awards Stock Awards
Number of Shares Value Realized Number of Shares Value Realized
Acquired on Exercise on Exercise Acquired on Vesting on Vesting
Name (#) ($)(1) (#) ($)(2)
Mr. Wilson 363,409 33,033,87 130,760 16,313,618
Mr. Merten 0 0 14,276 1,781,074
Mr. Rizzo 25,648 1,332,446 27,256 3,400,459
Mr. Dugenske 0 0 29,202 3,643,242
Mr. Gupta 40,000 3,323,000 20,766 2,590,766
Mr. Toohey 0 0 0 0
Mr. Civgin 186,797 8,124,925 31,928 3,983,337
Mr. Shapiro 82,341 1,397,700 31,636 3,946,907
(1) The dollar amount realized upon exercise of the option is determined based on the difference between the market price of the underlying securities at
exercise and the exercise price of the options.
(2) The dollar amount realized upon vesting is determined based on the market value underlying the shares on the vesting date.www.allstateproxy.com 93
Executive Compensation
Retirement Benefits
The following table provides information about the pension plans in which the named executives participate. Each of the
named executives participates in the Allstate Retirement Plan (ARP) and the Supplemental Retirement Income Plan (SRIP).
PENSION BENEFITS
Present Value
Number of Years of Accumulated Payments During
Plan Credited Service Benefit Last Fiscal Year
Name Name (#) ($)(1)(2) ($)
Mr. Wilson ARP 29.8 1,399,862 0
SRIP 29.8 20,696,497 0
Mr. Merten ARP 11.0 83,490 0
SRIP 11.0 162,650 0
Mr. Rizzo ARP 33.9 980,612 0
SRIP 33.9 899,025 0
Mr. Dugenske ARP 5.8 42,720 0
SRIP 5.8 314,561 0
Mr. Gupta ARP 11.7 103,796 0
SRIP 11.7 480,339 0
Mr. Toohey(3) ARP 0.8 0 0
SRIP 0.8 0 0
Mr. Civgin ARP 13.7 0 144,352
SRIP 13.7 921,007 0
Mr. Shapiro ARP 6.5 50,731 0
SRIP 6.5 334,880 0
(1) These amounts are estimates and do not necessarily reflect the actual amounts that will be paid to the named executives, which will be known only at the
time they become eligible for payment. The present value of the accumulated benefit was determined using the same measurement date (December 31,
2022) and material assumptions that we use for year-end financial reporting purposes, except that we made no assumptions for early termination, disability,
or pre-retirement mortality. Other assumptions include the following:
• Retirement at the normal retirement age as defined in the plans (age 65).
• Discount rate of 5.69%.
Other assumptions for the final average pay formula include the following:
• ARP benefits are assumed to be paid 80% as a lump sum, 10% as a life annuity, and 10% as a joint and survivor annuity.
• ARP and SRIP benefits are converted to a lump sum. For participants assumed to commence their benefits in 2023, the assumed lump-sum conversion
interest rates are based on 100% of the average corporate bond segmented yield curve from August 2022. Specifically, the rates are 3.79% for the first
5 years, 4.62% for the next 15 years, and 4.69% thereafter. For participants assumed to commence their benefits after 2023, the lump-sum conversion
interest rate is assumed to be equal to the discount rate of 5.69%.
• Lump-sum calculations were performed using the 2023 and estimated 2024 Internal Revenue Code Section 417(e)(3) mortality tables with a static
projection from 2024 to each future year using the MP-2021 projection scale.
• Annuity calculations were performed using the Pri-2012 white-collar mortality table for healthy retirees projected generationally from 2012 with the
MP-2021 projection scale.
Other assumptions for the cash balance formula include the following:
• ARP benefits are assumed to be paid as a lump sum.
• Accounts were projected to retirement using the actual interest rate for ARP and SRIP for 2023, specifically the average 30-year Treasury rate from
August .13%. After 2023, accounts are projected using the spot 30-year Treasury rate as of December 31, .97%.
See Note 18 to our audited financial statements for 2022 for additional information.
(2) The following table shows the lump-sum present value of the non-qualified pension benefits for each named executive earned through December 31, 2022,
if the named executive’s employment terminated on the earlier of that date or actual termination.
Plan Lump Sum Amount
Name Name ($)
Mr. Wilson SRIP 20,696,484
Mr. Merten SRIP 214,958
Mr. Rizzo SRIP 1,058,704
Mr. Dugenske SRIP 362,596
Mr. Gupta SRIP 510,775
Mr. Toohey SRIP -
Mr. Civgin SRIP 982,048
Mr. Shapiro SRIP 385,490
The amount shown is based on the lump-sum methodology used by ARP and SRIP in 2023. The lump-sum conversion interest rates are based on 100% of
the average corporate bond segmented yield curve from August 2022. Specifically, the rates are 3.79% for the first 5 years, 4.62% for the next 15 years, and
4.69% thereafter. The mortality table used for 2023 is the Internal Revenue Code Section 417(e)(3) mortality tables for 2023.
(3) Mr. Toohey was not a member of the ARP or the SRIP in 2022 and therefore had not accrued a benefit under the ARP or the SRIP.9944 2023 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Allstate Retirement Plan (ARP)
Contributions to the ARP are made entirely by Allstate and are paid into a trust fund from which benefits are paid. Before
January 1, 2014, ARP participants earned benefits under one of two formulas (final average pay or cash balance) based
on their date of hire or their choice at the time Allstate introduced the cash balance formula. In order to better align our
pension benefits with market practices, provide future pension benefits more equitably to Allstate employees, and reduce
costs, final average pay benefits were frozen as of December 31, 2013. As of January 1, 2014, all eligible participants earn
benefits under a cash balance formula only.
Final Average Pay Formula — Frozen as of 12/31/13
Benefits under the final average pay formula were earned and are stated in the form of a straight life annuity payable at the
normal retirement age of 65. Messrs. Rizzo and Wilson have earned final average pay benefits equal to the sum of a Base
Benefit and an Additional Benefit. The Base Benefit equals 1.55% of the participant’s average annual compensation, multiplied
by credited service after 1988 through 2013. The Additional Benefit equals 0.65% of the amount of the participant’s average
annual compensation that exceeds the participant’s covered compensation, multiplied by credited service after 1988 through
2013. Covered compensation is the average of the maximum annual salary taxable for Social Security over the 35-year period
ending the year the participant would reach Social Security retirement age. Mr. Wilson is eligible for an unreduced retirement
benefit since he remained in service past his normal retirement age of 65. Mr. Rizzo is eligible for a reduced early retirement
benefit that would reduce his Base Benefit by 4.8% for each year of early payment before age 65 and his Additional Benefit
by 8% for each year of early payment from age 62 to age 65 and 4% for each year of early payment from age 55 to age 62,
prorated on a monthly basis based on age at the date payments begin.
Cash Balance Formula — For All Participants Beginning 1/1/14
All named executives, except Mr. Toohey, earned benefits under the cash balance formula in 2022. Mr. Toohey will earn
benefits under the cash balance formula after completing one year of vesting service. Under this formula, participants
receive pay credits while employed at Allstate, based on a percentage of eligible annual compensation and years of service,
plus interest credits. Pay credits are allocated to a hypothetical account in an amount equal to 3% to 5% of eligible annual
compensation, depending on years of vesting service. Interest credits are allocated to the hypothetical account based on the
interest crediting rate in effect for that plan year as published by the Internal Revenue Service. The interest crediting rate is
set annually and is currently based on the average yield for 30-year U.S. Treasury securities for August of the prior year.
Supplemental Retirement Income Plan (SRIP)
SRIP benefits are generally determined using a two-step process: (1) determine the amount that would be payable under
the ARP formula(s) specified above if Internal Revenue Code limits did not apply, then (2) reduce the amount described in (1)
by the amount actually payable under the applicable ARP formula(s). The normal retirement date under the SRIP is age 65.
If eligible for early retirement under the ARP, the employee also is eligible for early retirement under the SRIP. SRIP benefits
are not funded and are paid out of Allstate’s general assets.
Credited Service
No additional service credit beyond service with Allstate or its predecessors is granted under the ARP or the SRIP to any
of the named executives. Mr. Wilson has combined service with Allstate and its former parent company, Sears, Roebuck
and Co., of 29.8 years. As a result, a portion of his retirement benefits will be paid from the Sears pension plan. Consistent
with the pension benefits of other employees with Sears service who were employed by Allstate at the time of the spin-off
from Sears in 1995, Mr. Wilson’s final average pay pension benefits under the ARP and the SRIP are calculated as if he had
worked his combined Sears-Allstate career with Allstate through December 31, 2013, and then are reduced by amounts
earned under the Sears pension plan.www.allstateproxy.com 95
Executive Compensation
Eligible Compensation
Under both the ARP and SRIP, eligible compensation consists of salary, annual cash incentive awards, and certain other
forms of compensation, but does not include long-term cash incentive awards or income related to equity awards.
Compensation used to determine benefits under the ARP is limited in accordance with the Internal Revenue Code. For final
average pay benefits, average annual compensation is the average compensation of the five highest consecutive calendar
years within the last ten consecutive calendar years through 2013.
Payment Options
Payment options under the ARP include a lump sum, straight life annuity, and various survivor annuity options. The
lump sum under the final average pay benefit is calculated in accordance with the applicable interest rate and mortality
assumptions as required under the Internal Revenue Code. The lump-sum payment under the cash balance benefit is
generally equal to a participant’s account balance. Payments from the SRIP are paid in the form of a lump sum using the
same interest rate and mortality assumptions used under the ARP.
Timing of Payments
Eligible employees are vested in the normal ARP and SRIP retirement benefits on the earlier of the completion of three
years of service or upon reaching age 65.
Final average pay benefits are payable at age 65. A participant with final average pay benefits may be entitled to a reduced early
retirement benefit on or after age 55 if he or she terminates employment after completing 20 or more years of vesting service.
A participant earning cash balance benefits who terminates employment with at least three years of vesting service is
entitled to a lump sum benefit equal to his or her cash balance account balance.
The following SRIP payment dates assume a retirement or termination date of December 31, 2022:
• Mr. Wilson’s SRIP benefits earned prior to 2005 would become payable as early as January 1, 2023. Benefits earned after
2004 would be paid on July 1, 2023, or following death.
• Messrs. Dugenske’s, Gupta’s and Rizzo’s SRIP benefits would be paid on July 1, 2023, or following death.
• Mr. Merten’s SRIP benefits would be paid on January 1, 2030, or following death.
• Mr. Toohey is not currently a member of the SRIP and therefore has not accrued a benefit under the SRIP.
• Messrs. Civgin’s and Shapiro’s SRIP benefits are scheduled to be paid as soon as administratively possible after January 1,
2023 and April 1, 2023, respectively.9966 2023 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation at Fiscal Year-end 2022
The following table summarizes the non-qualified deferred compensation contributions, earnings, and account balances of
our named executives in 2022. All amounts relate to The Allstate Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan.
Aggregate Aggregate
Executive Registrant Aggregate Withdrawals/ Balance
Contributions Contributions Earnings in Distributions in at Last
in Last FY in Last FY Last FY Last FY FYE
Name ($)(1) ($) ($)(2) ($) ($)(2)
Mr. Wilson 0 0 (343,174) 0 1,427,953
Mr. Merten 0 0 0 0 0
Mr. Rizzo 721,208 0 (194,708) 0 2,582,984
Mr. Dugenske 0 0 0 0 0
Mr. Gupta 0 0 0 0 0
Mr. Toohey 0 0 0 0 0
Mr. Civgin 0 0 0 0 0
Mr. Shapiro 0 0 64,361 0 3,468,123
(1) For Mr. Rizzo, Executive Contributions were previously reported in the Salary column for 2022 and the Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation column for
2021 in the Summary Compensation Table.
(2) Aggregate earnings were not included in the named executive’s compensation in the last completed fiscal year in the Summary Compensation Table.
In order to remain competitive with other employers, we allow the named executives and other employees whose annual
compensation exceeds the amount specified in the Internal Revenue Code ($305,000 in 2022), to defer under the Deferred
Compensation Plan up to 80% of their salary and/or up to 100% of their annual cash incentive award that exceeds the
Internal Revenue Code limit. Allstate does not match participant deferrals and does not guarantee a stated rate of return.
Deferrals under the Deferred Compensation Plan are credited with earnings or debited for losses based on the results
of the notional investment option or options selected by the participants. The notional investment options available in
2022 under the Deferred Compensation Plan are: stable value, S&P 500, international equity, Russell 2000, mid-cap, and
bond funds. Under the Deferred Compensation Plan, deferrals are not actually invested in these funds, but instead are
credited with earnings or debited for losses based on the funds’ investment returns. Because the rate of return is based
on actual investment measures in our 401(k) plan, no above-market earnings are credited, recorded, or paid. Our Deferred
Compensation Plan and 401(k) plan allow participants to change their investment elections daily, subject to certain
trading restrictions.
The Deferred Compensation Plan is unfunded. This means that Allstate does not set aside funds for the plan in a trust or
otherwise. Participants have only the rights of general unsecured creditors and may lose their balances in the event of the
company’s bankruptcy. Account balances are 100% vested at all times.
An irrevocable distribution election is required before making any deferrals into the Deferred Compensation Plan. Generally,
a named executive may elect to begin receiving a distribution of his or her account balance immediately upon separation
from service or in one of the first through fifth years after separation from service or, for amounts deferred on or after
January 1, 2018, in the fifth year after separation from service. The earliest distribution date for deferrals made on or after
January 1, 2005, and earnings and losses on these amounts, is six months following separation from service. The named
executive may elect to receive payment in a lump sum or in annual cash installment payments over a period of two to ten
years, or, for amounts deferred on or after January 1, 2018, over a period of up to five years. In addition, a named executive
may elect an in-service withdrawal of his or her entire balance earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005, and earnings
and losses on these amounts, subject to forfeiture of 10% of such balance. A named executive may also elect an in-service
withdrawal of all or a portion of the deferrals he or she made on or after January 1, 2018, together with earnings and losses
on those amounts. Upon proof of an unforeseen emergency, a plan participant may be allowed to access certain funds in a
deferred compensation account earlier than the dates specified above.www.allstateproxy.com 97
Executive Compensation
Potential Payments as a Result of Termination or Change in
Control (“CIC”)
The following table lists the compensation and benefits that Allstate would generally provide to the named executives
in various scenarios involving a termination of employment, other than compensation and benefits generally available to
salaried employees. The table describes equity granting practices for the 2022 equity incentive awards. Relevant prior
practices are described in the footnotes.
Termination Scenarios
Compensation Termination due to
Elements Termination(1) Retirement Change in Control(2) Death Disability
Base Salary Ceases Ceases immediately Ceases immediately Ceases Ceases
immediately immediately immediately
Severance Pay None None Lump sum is equal to None None
two times salary and
annual incentive at
target(3)
Annual Incentive(4) Forfeited Prorated for the year and Prorated at target Prorated for the Prorated for
subject to discretionary (reduced by any year and subject the year and
adjustments(5) amounts actually paid) to discretionary subject to
adjustments discretionary
adjustments
Stock Options(4)(6) Unvested Awards granted more Awards vest upon Awards vest Awards vest
are forfeited, than 12 months before, qualifying termination immediately immediately
vested expire and pro rata portion of after a CIC and expire at and expire at
at the earlier award granted within 12 earlier of two earlier of two
of three months of retirement, years or normal years or normal
months continue to vest. All expiration expiration
or normal expire at earlier of
expiration five years or normal
expiration(7)
Restricted Stock Forfeited Awards granted more Awards vest upon Awards vest Awards
Units(4)(6) than 12 months before, qualifying termination and are payable vest and
and pro rata portion of after a CIC immediately are payable
awards granted within immediately
12 months of retirement,
continue to vest(7)
Performance Stock Forfeited Awards granted more Awards vest based on Awards vest Awards
Awards(4)(6) than 12 months before, performance upon a and are payable vest and
and pro rata portion of qualifying termination immediately(9) are payable
awards granted within after a CIC(8) immediately(9)
12 months of retirement,
continue to vest and are
paid out based on actual
performance(7)
Non-Qualified Distributions Distributions commence Immediately payable Distributions Participant
Pension Benefits(10) commence per plan upon a CIC for Mr. commence per may request
per plan Wilson; distributions plan payment if age
commence per plan for 50 or older
other NEOs9988 2023 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Termination Scenarios
Compensation Termination due to
Elements Termination(1) Retirement Change in Control(2) Death Disability
Deferred Distributions Distributions commence Immediately payable Payable within Distributions
Compensation(11) commence per participant election upon a CIC for Mr. 90 days commence
per Wilson; distributions per participant
participant commence election
election per participant
election for other
participating NEOs
Health, Welfare None None Outplacement services None Supplemental
and Other Benefits provided; lump sum Long Term
payment equal to Disability
additional cost of benefits
welfare benefits if enrolled
continuation coverage in basic
for 18 months(12) long-term
disability plan
(1) Includes both voluntary and involuntary termination other than due to retirement, change in control, death or disability. Examples of involuntary termination
independent of a change in control include performance-related terminations; terminations for employee dishonesty and violation of Allstate rules,
regulations, or policies; and terminations resulting from lack of work, rearrangement of work, or reduction in force.
(2) In general, a change in control is one or more of the following events: (1) any person acquires 30% or more of the combined voting power of Allstate
common stock within a 12-month period; (2) any person acquires more than 50% of the combined voting power of Allstate common stock; (3) certain
changes are made to the composition of the Board; or (4) the consummation of a merger, reorganization, or similar transaction. These triggers were
selected because any of these could cause a substantial change in management in a widely held company the size of Allstate. Effective upon a change in
control, the named executives become subject to covenants prohibiting solicitation of employees, customers, and suppliers until one year after termination
of employment. If a named executive incurs legal fees or other expenses in an effort to enforce the change in control plan, Allstate will reimburse the named
executive for these expenses unless it is established by a court that the named executive had no reasonable basis for the claim or acted in bad faith.
(3) Under the change in control plan, severance benefits would be payable if a named executive’s employment is terminated either by Allstate without cause
or by the executive for good reason as defined in the plan during the two years following the change in control. Cause means the named executive has
been convicted of a felony or other crime involving fraud or dishonesty, has willfully or intentionally breached the restrictive covenants in the change in
control plan, has habitually neglected his or her duties, or has engaged in willful or reckless material misconduct in the performance of his or her duties.
Good reason includes a material diminution in a named executive’s base compensation, authority, duties, or responsibilities, or a material change in the
geographic location where the named executive performs services.
(4) Named executives who receive an equity award or an annual cash incentive award after May 19, 2009, are subject to a non-solicitation covenant while they
are employed and for the one-year period following termination of employment. If a named executive violates the non-solicitation covenant, to the extent
permitted by applicable law, compensation provided to the named executive (including cancellation of outstanding awards or recovery of all or a portion of
any gain realized upon vesting, settlement, or exercise of an award or recovery of all or a portion of any proceeds resulting from any disposition of shares
received pursuant to an award) may be recovered if the vesting, settlement, or exercise of the award or the receipt of the sale proceeds occurred during the
12-month period prior to the violation.
(5) Retirement for purposes of the Annual Executive Incentive Plan is defined as termination on or after the date the named executive attains age 55 with at
least 10 years of service or age 60 with five years of service.
(6) Named executives who receive an equity award on or after May 21, 2013, that remains subject to a period of restriction or other performance or vesting
condition are subject to a non-compete provision for the one-year period following termination of employment. If a named executive violates the non-
competition covenant, to the extent permitted by applicable law, any or all of the named executive’s outstanding awards that remain subject to a period of
restriction or other performance or vesting condition as of the date on which the named executive first violated the non-competition provision may
be canceled.
(7) Retirement definitions and treatment for purposes of stock options, restricted stock units, and performance stock awards are as follows:
Definition Normal Retirement: age 55 with 10 years of service or age 60 with at least five years of service
Treatment • Unvested awards not granted within 12 months of retirement continue to vest.
• Prorated portion of unvested awards granted within 12 months of the retirement date continue to vest.
• Vested stock options expire at the earlier of five years from the date of retirement or the expiration date of the option.
(8) The committee will determine the number of PSAs that continue to vest based on actual performance up to the change in control.
(9) For open cycles, the payout is based on the target number of PSAs.
(10) See the Retirement Benefits section for further detail on non-qualified pension benefits and timing of payments.
(11) See the Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation at Fiscal Year-end 2022 section for additional information on the Deferred Compensation Plan and
distribution options available.
(12) If a named executive’s employment is terminated due to death during the two years after the date of a change in control, the named executive’s estate or
beneficiary will be entitled to survivor and other benefits, including retiree medical coverage, if eligible, that are not less favorable than the most favorable
benefits available to the estates or surviving families of peer executives of Allstate. In the event of termination due to disability during the two years after
the date of a change in control, Allstate will pay disability and other benefits, including supplemental long-term disability benefits and retiree medical
coverage, if eligible, that are not less favorable than the most favorable benefits available to disabled peer executives.www.allstateproxy.com 99
Executive Compensation
Estimate of Potential Payments Upon Termination(1)
The table below describes the value of compensation and benefits payable to each named executive, other than
Mr. Shapiro, upon termination that would exceed the compensation or benefits generally available to salaried employees
in each termination scenario. The total column in the following table does not reflect compensation or benefits previously
accrued or earned by the named executives, such as deferred compensation and non-qualified pension benefits. Benefits
and payments are calculated assuming a December 31, 2022 employment termination date.
Restricted
Stock Stock Units and Welfare
Annual Options — Performance Stock Benefits and
Incentive Unvested and Awards — Unvested Outplacement
Severance Plan Accelerated and Accelerated Services Total
Name ($) ($)(2) ($) ($) ($) ($)
Mr. Wilson
Termination due to Retirement(3) 0 2,389,125 8,860,809 23,477,920 0 34,727,854
Termination due to Change in Control(4) 11,080,000(8) 4,155,000 9,202,331 24,394,847 65,466(6) 48,897,644
Death 0 2,389,125 9,202,331 24,394,847 0 35,986,303
Disability 0 2,389,125 9,202,331 24,394,847 0 35,986,303
Mr. Merten
Termination due to Retirement(3) 0 0 0 0 0 0
Termination due to Change in Control(4) 3,442,500(8) 956,250 971,533 2,521,618 72,709(6) 7,964,610
Death 0 346,233 971,533 2,521,618 0 3,839,384
Disability 0 346,233 971,533 2,521,618 6,980,717(7) 10,820,101
Mr. Rizzo
Termination due to Retirement(3) 0 603,665 1,864,889 4,839,700 0 7,308,254
Termination due to Change in Control(4) 4,250,000(8) 1,275,000 1,938,384 5,064,796 65,426(6) 12,593,606
Death 0 603,665 1,938,384 5,064,796 0 7,606,845
Disability 0 603,665 1,938,384 5,064,796 8,549,643(7) 16,156,488
Mr. Dugenske
Termination due to Retirement(3) 0 0 0 0 0 0
Termination due to Change in Control(4) 4,250,000(8) 1,275,000 2,273,978 5,892,227 72,709(6) 13,763,914
Death 0 729,077 2,273,978 5,892,227 0 8,895,282
Disability 0 729,077 2,273,978 5,892,227 9,804,379(7) 18,699,661
Mr. Gupta
Termination due to Retirement(3) 0 373,163 1,427,321 3,701,744 0 5,502,228
Termination due to Change in Control(4) 2,755,000(8) 652,500 1,482,997 3,851,311 65,475(6) 8,807,283
Death 0 373,163 1,482,997 3,851,311 0 5,707,471
Disability 0 373,163 1,482,997 3,851,311 2,644,384(7) 8,351,855
Mr. Toohey
Termination due to Retirement(3) 0 0 0 0 0 0
Termination due to Change in Control(4) 1,626,944(8)(9) 562,500 0 1,580,960 72,642(6) 3,843,046
Death 0 247,232 0 1,580,960 0 1,828,192
Disability 0 247,232 0 1,580,960 2,038,623(7) 3,866,815
Mr. Civgin
Termination due to Retirement(5) 0 297,742 2,106,903 5,328,809 0 7,733,454
(1) A “0” indicates either there is no amount payable to the named executive, or the amount payable is the same for both the named executives and all salaried
employees.
(2) The 2022 annual incentive plan payment is payable to all named executives as a result of death or disability. In addition, it is payable to Messrs. Wilson,
Gupta and Rizzo in the event of retirement. The amount listed for the annual incentive plan payment upon termination due to a change in control is shown
at target as defined in the CIC Plan.
(3) As of December 31, 2022, Messrs. Wilson, Gupta and Rizzo are eligible to retire in accordance with Allstate’s policy and the terms of its equity and annual
incentive compensation and benefit plans.
(4) The values in this change in control row represent amounts paid if both the change in control and qualifying termination occur on December 31, 2022. PSAs
are paid out based on actual performance; for purposes of this table, the 2020-2022 cycle is shown at 124% of target and the 2021-2023 and 2022-2024
cycles are reflected at target.
Equity awards do not accelerate in the event of a change in control unless also accompanied by a qualifying termination of employment. A change in
control also would accelerate the distribution of deferred compensation and SRIP benefits for Messrs. Wilson, Gupta and Rizzo; deferred compensation
and SRIP benefits for the other NEOs are distributed in accordance with the applicable plan terms and participant elections. Please see the Non-Qualified
Deferred Compensation at Fiscal Year-end 2022 table and footnote 2 to the Pension Benefits table in the Retirement Benefits section for details regarding
the applicable amounts for each named executive.
(5) As described on page 84, Mr. Civgin retired in accordance with Allstate’s policies. The values represent the actual amounts he received in connection with
his retirement from the company.110000 2023 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
(6) The Welfare Benefits and Outplacement Services amount includes the cost to provide certain welfare benefits to the named executive and family during
the period the named executive is eligible for continuation coverage under applicable law. The amount shown reflects Allstate’s costs for these benefits or
programs assuming an 18-month continuation period. The value of outplacement services is $50,000 for each named executive.
(7) The named executives who participate in the long-term disability plan are eligible to participate in Allstate’s supplemental long-term disability plan for
employees whose annual earnings exceed the level that produces the maximum monthly benefit provided by the long-term disability plan (basic plan). The
monthly benefit is equal to 60% of the named executive’s qualified annual earnings divided by twelve and rounded to the nearest $100, reduced by $7,500,
which is the maximum monthly benefit payment that can be received under the basic plan. The amount reflected assumes the named executive remains
totally disabled until age 65 and represents the present value of the monthly benefit payable until age 65.
(8) Represents two times the sum of base salary and target annual incentive.
(9) Under the change in control plan, severance benefits for Mr. Toohey were reduced by $748,056 to avoid the imposition of excise taxes and maximize the
severance benefit available under the plan.
As described on page 83, in connection with his retirement from the company in late 2022, Mr. Shapiro entered into a
separation agreement with the company. In return for continued employment during several key leadership transitions,
Mr. Shapiro received a separation amount equal to a pro-rated annual cash incentive award estimated at the time of his
retirement and continued vesting of his 2020 PSA grant. The following chart illustrates payments and benefits Mr. Shapiro
received upon his retirement.
Name Type of Payment Amount ($)
Glenn Shapiro Separation payment equal to pro-rated estimated annual award 1,100,000
payout(1)
Pro-rated target PSAs(2) 1,902,129
(1) Represents a pro-rated annual incentive payout based on the number of days worked during the calendar year and company performance through
September 30, 2022.
(2) Represents continued vesting of a pro-rated portion of the target PSAs granted to Mr. Shapiro in 2020, which accounts for his departure with three months
remaining in the three-year performance cycle.www.allstateproxy.com 101
Executive Compensation
Performance Measures for 2022
The following pages contain descriptions of the performance measures used for executive incentive compensation. They
were developed uniquely for incentive compensation purposes, are non-GAAP measures and are not reported in our
financial statements. The committee has approved the use of non-GAAP measures when appropriate to drive executive
focus on particular strategic, operational, or financial factors, or to exclude factors over which our executives have little
influence or control. The committee monitors compensation estimates during the year based on actual performance on
these measures, and the internal audit department reviews the final results.
Performance Net Income: This measure is calculated uniquely for annual cash incentive awards and each PSA performance
cycle. For each plan, Performance Net Income is equal to net income applicable to common shareholders as reported in The
Allstate Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K adjusted for the after-tax effect of the items indicated below:
Annual Cash Performance
Indicates adjustments to Net Income Incentive Awards Stock Awards(1)
Net income applicable to common shareholders, excluding:
Net gains and losses on investments and derivatives
Gain or loss on disposition
Pension and other post retirement remeasurement gains and losses
Business combination expenses, fair value adjustments and
amortization or impairment of purchased intangibles
Income or loss from discontinued operations
Other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items, when
the nature of the charge or gain is such that it is reasonably unlikely
to recur within two years or there has been no similar charge or gain
within the prior two years
Adjusted Net Income subtotal (See Appendix A)
Restructuring and related charges
Run-off Property-Liability segment
Effects of acquiring and selling businesses in excess of $20 million
after-tax
Adjustments to be consistent with financial reporting used in
establishing the measure for items exceeding $20 million after-tax
Adjustments for other significant, non-recurring, infrequent or
unusual items for items exceeding $20 million after-tax
Adjustment to exclude income associated with parent holding
company level deployable assets in excess of $2 billion(2)
Adjustments for foreign exchange rate used in establishing
the measure
Performance Net Income before adjustment for volatile items(3)
Adjustment for after-tax volatile items Adjusted to include minimum Three-year average
or maximum amount of after- adjusted to include a
tax catastrophe losses and minimum or maximum
income from performance- amount of after-tax
based (“PB”) investments catastrophe losses
Performance Net Income
(1) Performance Net Income ROE is a performance measure for the 2020-2022, 2021-2023, 2022-2024 and 2023-2025 performance cycles. The 2021-2023,
2022-2024, and 2023-2025 performance cycles do not qualify for final measurement as of December 31, 2022; the items checked above and after-tax
volatile items indicate items that by definition may impact the final measurement when the three-year cycle and final measurement is completed.
(2) Adjustment for the 2020-2022 performance cycle of deployable assets in excess of $1 billion.
(3) Volatile items include catastrophe losses and income from performance-based investments (“PB income”) depending on the measure.110022 2023 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Annual Cash Incentive Award Performance Measures for 2022
• Total Premiums: This measure is used to assess growth within the Allstate Protection, Protection Services, and Allstate
Health & Benefits businesses. It is equal to the sum of Allstate Protection and Protection Services premiums written and
Allstate Health & Benefits premiums and contract charges as described below. Premiums written is equal to the Allstate
Protection and Protection Services net premiums written as reported in management’s discussion and analysis in The
Allstate Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Premiums and contract charges are equal to accident and health insurance premiums and contract charges reported in
the consolidated statement of operations in The Allstate Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Total Premiums is subject to adjustment for the following individual items to the extent they exceed $30 million:
adjustments to be consistent with financial reporting and foreign exchange rates used in establishing the measure and
adjustments to exclude the effects of acquiring and selling businesses.
In 2022, Reported Total Premiums of $50,319 million was adjusted by $118 million to be consistent with foreign exchange
rates used in establishing the measure for Total Premiums of $50,437 million.
• Performance Net Income: In 2022, Performance Net Income was ($426) million compared to reported Adjusted Net
Income* of ($262) million, a difference of $164 million. It was adjusted to reflect a minimum amount of after-tax catastrophe
losses and income from PB investments, to remove the impacts of the underwriting loss of run-off Property-Liability
segment and restructuring and related charges, to be consistent with foreign exchange rates used in establishing the
measure and to remove impacts from other non-recurring items.
• Net Investment Income: This measure is used to assess the financial operating performance provided from investments.
Net investment income and net gains and losses on investments and derivatives on PB investments, as reported in the
consolidated statement of operations, is adjusted to include a minimum or maximum amount of PB income if the actual
amounts are less than or exceed those amounts, respectively. Net Investment Income is also subject to adjustments to
be consistent with the financial reporting and foreign exchange rates used in establishing the measure and to exclude
the effects of acquiring and selling businesses in excess of a threshold.
In 2022, adjustments were made to reflect a maximum amount of PB income and the impact of foreign exchange rates
used in establishing the measure, resulting in Net Investment Income of $2,318 million, compared to reported net
investment income of $2,414 million, including net gains and losses on investments and derivatives on PB investments.
• Strategic Initiatives Scorecard: This measure is used to measure progress made against Transformative Growth
and IDE strategies using a qualitative approach. Progress was assessed by the committee to determine the overall
performance of the measure for 2022.
In evaluating performance for the Transformative Growth portion of the scorecard, the committee considered progress
made against the key components of the Transformative Growth strategy, including improved customer value, expanded
customer access, modernized technology ecosystem, increased sophistication and investment in customer acquisition and
organizational transformation.
In evaluating performance for the IDE portion of the scorecard, the committee considered progress made against key goals
of the IDE strategy, including female and racially and/or ethnically diverse workforce representation, business practices and
cultural integration.www.allstateproxy.com 103
Executive Compensation
Performance Stock Award Performance Measures for the 2020-2022, 2021-2023,
2022-2024, and 2023-2025 Performance Cycles
PSAs granted in 2020 PSAs granted in 2021 and 2022 PSAs granted in 2023 and thereafter
MEASUREMENTS 70% Average Performance 50% Average Performance 50% Average Performance
AND WEIGHTINGS Net Income ROE Net Income ROE Net Income ROE
30% Relative TSR
30% Relative TSR
10% Transformative Growth
30% Relative TSR 20% Items in Force Growth
10% Inclusive Diversity and
Equity
* Measures used in this proxy statement that are not based on generally accepted accounting principles (“non-GAAP”) are denoted with an asterisk (*). For
definitions of these terms, please see the definitions of non-GAAP measures on pages 118-120 of our 2023 Proxy Statement.
• Three-Year Average Performance Net Income Return on Equity: This is calculated as the ratio of Average Performance Net Income
subject to certain adjustments for each of the three years in the performance cycle, divided by the average of Adjusted Common
Shareholders’ Equity at December 31 of the year-end immediately preceding the period and at the end of each year in the three-year
period. It is subject to certain adjustments and excludes total unrealized net capital gains and losses and parent holding company
level deployable assess in excess of $2 billion (adjustment for 2020-2022 performance cycle is in excess of $1 billion). The committee
requires positive net income in order for executives to earn PSAs for Average Performance Net Income ROE above target, subject to
certain adjustments.
• Relative Total Shareholder Return: This is the company’s Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) relative to the TSR of other peer companies,
expressed in terms of the company’s TSR percentile rank among the peer companies. Peer companies for the applicable performance
cycles are included in the table below (in addition to The Allstate Corporation). TSR is determined by dividing (i) the average Adjusted
Close Price of the applicable company’s stock or applicable index’s price over the 20 trading days prior to and including the final day of the
performance period (“Final Average Adjusted Close Price”) minus the average Adjusted Close Price of the applicable company’s stock or
applicable index’s price over the 20 trading days prior to the first day of the performance period (“Initial Average Adjusted Close Price”) by
(ii) the Initial Average Adjusted Close Price. In calculating TSR, all dividends are assumed to have been reinvested on the ex-dividend date.
2020-2022 2021-2023, 2022-2024 and
Company/Index Performance Cycle 2023-2025 Performance Cycles(1)
AFLAC Inc.
American Financial Group Inc.
American International Group Inc.
Chubb Limited
Cincinnati Financial Corporation
CNA Financial Corporation
The Hartford Financial Services Group Inc.
Manulife Financial Corporation
MetLife Inc.
The Progressive Corporation
Prudential Financial Inc.
The Travelers Companies Inc.
W. R. Berkley Corporation
S&P 500 Index
S&P 500 Financial Index
(1) The Life and Accident & Health peers were removed in 2021 due to the divestiture of these businesses. Allstate added three new Property & Casualty peers.
• Items in Force Growth: This is used to assess progress against Allstate’s Transformative Growth strategy and growth within the Allstate
business segments. It represents the number of policies in force. Policy counts are based on items rather than customers. The measure is
calculated as the compound annual growth rate of items in force at the beginning and at the end of the three-year performance period.
• Transformative Growth: This is used to assess progress against Allstate’s Transformative Growth strategy, including the Affordable,
Simple, Connected (ASC) roll-out (50% weighting) and improvement of the Lowest Price Index (LPI) (50% weighting). Measurement of
the ASC roll-out component is based on the percentage of Allstate Brand standard auto quotes on an ASC product at the end of the
performance period. Measurement of the LPI component is based on improvement in auto LPI market data points at FYE 2025 relative
to FYE 2022 across ten states.
• Inclusive Diversity and Equity: This is used to assess progress against Allstate’s IDE strategies, including increasing female and racially
and/or ethnically diverse representation within management. Threshold is established at current representation with improving historical
trends for target. This quantitative measurement is consistent with the long-term nature of the company's IDE strategy.110044 2023 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
CEO Pay Ratio
As required by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, we are providing information about the
relationship of the annual total compensation of our employees to the annual total compensation of Mr. Wilson, our CEO.
This pay ratio is a reasonable estimate calculated in a manner consistent with SEC rules.
For 2022:
• the annual total compensation of our median employee was $66,189; and
• the annual total compensation of our CEO, as reported in the Summary Compensation Table in this Proxy Statement,
was $15,005,001.
• The ratio of the annual total compensation of Mr. Wilson to our median employee was 226:1.
To calculate the ratio, we followed SEC permitted rules and used the following methodology and material assumptions,
adjustments, and estimates:
• December 31, 2022 was selected as the determination date as it enabled us to choose a pay date that aligned across
our enterprise.
• As of December 31, 2022, our U.S. and non-U.S. employee population consisted of approximately 54,500 full-time,
part-time, seasonal and temporary employees. Employees in all countries were included in the calculation, with the
exception of 1,058 employees in Australia, Japan, Malta, Bermuda, Norway, Belgium, and Mexico (15, 17, 2, 5, 2, 1, and
1,016 in each jurisdiction, respectively).
• The Allstate agent population was excluded since they are not employees of Allstate or its subsidiaries.
• Total cash (base salary plus incentive compensation) was selected as the most appropriate and consistently applied
compensation measure to determine the median worker since equity awards are not broadly distributed.
• Employee compensation was measured using a twelve-month look-back period ending December 31, 2022.
• Permanent employees hired in 2022 that did not work for the entire period had their compensation adjusted as if
they were employed for the entire twelve-month period.
• For non-U.S. employees, an annual average was used for each of the exchange rates.
• After identifying the median worker based on total cash compensation, annual total compensation was calculated
for that person using the same methodology used for the named executives in the Summary Compensation Table on
page 87.
• As noted above, the median employee’s annual total compensation was $66,189. The median employee was a claims
analyst in the United States with total cash compensation of $66,189 and a change in pension value of $0.
The SEC rules for identifying the median of our employees and calculating the pay ratio allow companies to use a variety of
methodologies, to apply certain exclusions, and to make reasonable estimates and assumptions that reflect a company’s
employee population and compensation practices. For that reason, the pay ratio reported by other companies may not be
comparable to the pay ratio reported above. Neither the committee nor management of the company used the pay ratio
measure in making compensation decisions.www.allstateproxy.com 105
Executive Compensation
Pay Versus Performance Table
As required by the SEC rules and aligned with Item 402(v) of Regulation S-K, detail is provided in the pay versus
performance table. The table represents the relationship between our Principal Executive Officer (“PEO”) and Non-
PEO NEOs compensation actually paid (“CAP”) with respect to key financial performance measures of the company.
For additional information regarding Allstate’s pay for performance philosophy and how the company aligns NEO
compensation, refer to the CD&A beginning on page 62.
Value of Initial Fixed $100
Average
Investment Based On:
Summary Summary Average
Compensation Compensation Compensation Compensation Total Peer Group
Table Total for Actually Paid Table Total for Actually Paid to Shareholder Total Shareholder Performance
PEO to PEO Non-PEO NEOs Non-PEO NEOs Return Return Net Income Net Income
Year ($)(1) ($)(2)(3) ($)(1) ($)(2)(3) ($) ($) ($ in millions) ($ in millions)(4)
2022 15,005,001 30,035,131 3,498,306 4,852,665 130 149 (1,416) (426)
2021 19,066,920 27,585,626 5,548,209 7,666,840 110 131 1,485 3,689
2020 21,126,386 26,023,346 5,228,904 6,270,236 100 101 5,461 4,967
(1) The totals reflected align with the data reported in the Summary Compensation Table as shown on page 87. Mr. Wilson (Chair, President, and CEO) is
represented as the Principal Executive Officer (“PEO”) for each year reported. The Non-PEO NEO column represents Allstate’s NEOs for each respective
year. The employees included in Non-PEO NEOs for each year are noted below:
2022 2021 2020
Mario Rizzo Mario Rizzo Mario Rizzo
Glenn Shapiro Glenn Shapiro Glenn Shapiro
Don Civgin Don Civgin Don Civgin
John Dugenske John Dugenske John Dugenske
Jesse Merten
Suren Gupta
Robert Toohey
(2) CAP has been calculated in accordance with Item 402(v) of Regulation S-K. The amounts do not reflect actual amount of compensation earned, realized,
or received by the company NEOs. These amounts reflect the Summary Compensation Table Total with certain adjustments as described below. The
calculation of CAP requires adjustments to amounts previously reported in the Summary Compensation Table for the years represented. The adjustments
made to the PEO and Non-PEO NEOs to determine fair value is noted in the table below.
2020 2021 2022
Compensation Actually Paid Component PEO Non-PEO PEO Non-PEO PEO Non-PEO
Summary Compensation Table (SCT) Total $21,126,386 $ 5,228,904 $19,066,920 $5,548,209 $15,005,001 $3,498,306
Deduction: SCT change in Actuarial Value of Pension Value $ (3,116,842) $ (189,278) $ (697,929) $ (65,931) $ - $ (51,781)
Deduction: SCT Stock Award Amount $ (7,312,094) $(1,685,460) $ (6,335,804) $(1,617,742) $ (6,868,175) $(1,523,242)
Deduction: SCT Option Award Amount $ (4,404,993) $(1,015,376) $ (4,304,994) $(1,099,217) $ (4,293,494) $ (871,876)
Addition: Pension Service Cost $ 217,343 $ 56,961 $ 238,310 $ 62,348 $ 235,050 $ 46,723
Addition: Change in fair value, during the fiscal year, of $ 3,712,366 $ 218,942 $ (454,767) $ (110,761) $ 3,039,030 $ 521,581
unvested equity awards at the beginning of the
fiscal year that vested during the fiscal year
Addition: Change in fair value, during the fiscal year, of $ 6,802,340 $1,581,275 $ 6,922,985 $1,592,057 $ 7,695,232 $1,338,444
unvested equity awards at the beginning of the
fiscal year that remained unvested at year-end
Addition: Fair value, at the end of the year, of equity $ 8,998,841 $2,074,267 $13,150,905 $3,357,877 $15,222,487 $2,083,563
awards granted during the fiscal year that
remain unvested at year-end
Deduction: Fair value of unvested equity awards at $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ (189,054)
the beginning of the fiscal year that were
forfeiture during the fiscal year
Compensation Actually Paid $26,023,346 $6,270,236 $27,585,626 $7,666,840 $30,035,131 $4,852,665
(3) Performance Net Income (PNI) is Allstate’s company selected measure. PNI is equal to net income applicable to common shareholders as reported in The
Allstate Corporate Annual Report on Form 10-K adjusted for the after-tax items indicated on page 101 under Performance Net Income.110066 2023 Proxy Statement
Executive Compensation
Financial Measures: The Allstate executive compensation programs reflect the pay-for-performance culture and supports
shareholder alignment while also incentivizing our executives as noted throughout the CD&A beginning on page 62. For
the annual and long-term incentive programs, the committee uses performance measures that (1) align with the company’s
strategy, operating principles and priorities, and shareholder interest, (2) support the achievement of corporate goals, and
(3) reflect the company’s overall performance. The most important performance measures used to understand CAP with
respect to company’s performance for Allstate NEOs for this most recently completed fiscal year are as follows:
Performance Net Income (PNI)
Performance Net Income Return on Equity (PNI ROE)
Total Premiums
Relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR)
Relationship between CAP and Performance Measures in the Table: The following graphs provide a visual
representation of the relationship between the CAP of our PEO and the average CAP of our Non-PEO NEOs as it relates to
each financial measure noted in the pay versus performance table. The relationship between Allstate’s TSR and our peer
group TSR is reflected in the first graph – CAP vs Total Shareholder Return. Performance measure mix, timing of grants and
outstanding vesting, share price volatility, and other factors impact CAP.
The majority of CAP to our NEOs is closely connected to long-term awards under the long-term incentive plan primarily
driven by Performance Net Income and relative TSR. Over the last three years, external factors, including rising inflation,
have impacted Performance Net Income while Allstate’s relative TSR has remained strong. The graphs below demonstrate:
• From 2020 to 2021 CAP to our PEO increased 6% and average CAP to our non-PEO NEOs experienced a greater increase
of 22%. In the same period our TSR increased from $100 to $110 (10%), while the net income measures fell. The continued
increase in CAP as net income declined is a result of the fair value NEO long-term incentive awards which closely aligns
to the TSR which increased over the same period. The decline in Performance Net Income is a result of higher insurance
losses and unfavorable reserve re-estimates.
• From 2021 to 2022 CAP to our PEO increased by just below 9% and average CAP to our non-PEO NEOs decreased by
roughly 37%. In the same period TSR continued to increase from 110 to 131 (18%). Net income continued to decline.
Allstate aggressively took actions to address the decreasing net income during this inflationary period, causing higher
insurance losses and unfavorable reserve re-estimates, resulting in continued TSR increases.
• Allstate has seen continued growth in TSR from 2020 through 2022 with an aggregate growth rate of 30% while our peer
group has slightly outpaced us at 48%. Despite this, Allstate’s relative TSR to the peer group improved.
For additional detail regarding Allstate’s executive pay practices including incentive design and goal setting, compensation
elements, compensation decisions, and governance practices see the CD&A beginning on page 62.
CAP vs Total Shareholder Return CAP vs Net Income
$35.0 160 $35.0 $6,000
$30.0 140 $30.0 $5,000
120 $4,000
$25.0 $25.0
100 $3,000
$20.0 $20.0
80 $2,000
$15.0 $15.0
60 $1,000
$10.0 $10.0
40 $0
$5.0 20 $5.0 $-1,000
$0.0 0 $0.0 $-2,000
2020 2021 2022 2020 2021 2022
PEO CAP Avg. NEO CAP ALL TSR Peer TSR CEO CAP Avg. NEO CAP ALL Net Income
CAP vs Performance Net Income
$35.0 $6,000
$30.0 $5,000
$25.0 $4,000
$20.0 $3,000
$15.0 $2,000
$10.0 $1,000
$5.0 $0
$0.0 -$1,000
2020 2021 2022
CEO CAP Avg. NEO CAP PNI107
Say-on-
Frequency
3
Say-on-frequency: Advisory vote on the
frequency of future advisory votes on the
compensation of the named executives
What am I voting on? Overview
In accordance with the Dodd-Frank • Allstate’s shareholders have expressed interest in annual say-on-pay
Wall Street Reform and Consumer proposals
Protection Act, every six years,
• The Board values the opportunity to receive annual feedback to respond to
shareholders must vote on whether
changing market conditions
executive compensation votes
(say-on-pay) should occur every year,
• It is market practice to hold a say-on-pay vote on an annual basis
every two years, or every three years.
• The next say-on-frequency vote will be held at the 2029 annual meeting
Voting recommendation
The Board recommends that you %
vote to conduct future advisory
votes on executive compensation
EVERY YEAR.
The Board of Directors recommends that future advisory votes on executive compensation occur every year, as is
the current practice. This provides the basis for proactive dialogue between the Board and shareholders annually
on the company’s pay practices. When Allstate last presented this issue for vote in 2017, approximately 89% of the
votes cast supported an annual frequency.
Shareholders will be able to specify one of four choices for this proposal: one year, two years, three years, or abstain.
Shareholders are not voting to approve or disapprove the Board’s recommendation. While this advisory vote is nonbinding,
the Board will strongly consider adopting the frequency supported by the largest number of votes cast.110088
Audit Committee
Matters
4
Ratification of Deloitte &
Touche LLP as the Independent
Registered Public Accountant
for 2023
What am I Overview
voting on? • Independent firm with few ancillary services and reasonable fees
• Significant industry and financial reporting expertise
We conduct a vote every year
• The audit committee annually evaluates Deloitte & Touche LLP and
asking shareholders to ratify the
determined that its retention continues to be in the best interests of
appointment of the company's
Allstate and its shareholders
independent registered public
accountant for the current year, who
is Deloitte & Touche LLP (Deloitte)
for 2023. While the vote is non-
binding, the audit committee will
consider the results as part of their
evaluation of Deloitte.
Voting recommendation
%
The Board recommends a vote FOR
ratification of Deloitte & Touche LLP
for 2023.Audit Committee Matters
www.allstateproxy.com 109
Audit Committee Matters
The Audit Committee has established strong practices to evaluate the qualifications, compensation, performance, and
independence of the independent registered public accounting firm both on an ongoing basis throughout the year
and through the completion of an annual evaluation. Additional information regarding the audit committee’s duties
and responsibilities is available in the committee’s charter located under the Governance section of Allstate’s investor
relations website at www.allstateinvestors.com. Deloitte & Touche LLP has been Allstate’s independent registered
public accounting firm since Allstate became a publicly traded entity in 1993.
As a starting point for the annual evaluation, a survey of management and the audit committee is administered by
Allstate’s internal audit function, with participation of a Deloitte partner who is not affiliated with the Allstate account.
The survey assesses Allstate’s general satisfaction with the quality and efficiency of the services provided. Results are
reported to the audit committee, which discusses results with management.
The Audit Committee and the company’s senior accounting and financial reporting leaders perform the annual evaluation
of Deloitte utilizing key aspects of the external auditor evaluation tool developed by the Center for Audit Quality
(CAQ). This incorporates review and discussion of the results of the firm’s reports on its quality controls and external
assessments, including results of inspections conducted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB).
While also evaluating and considering Deloitte’s independence, the audit committee performed its annual assessment
of Deloitte’s performance as independent auditor. The audit committee assessed the performance of the Deloitte lead
audit engagement partner and the audit team. The factors considered by the audit committee include:
• Quality of Deloitte’s discussions and feedback sessions, including communications with the audit committee and
management
• How effectively Deloitte maintained its independence, objectivity, and professional skepticism and employed
independent judgment
• Depth of insurance industry and technical expertise and capability in handling the breadth and complexity of
Allstate’s operations and industry
• Professionalism and responsiveness
• Value from sharing industry insights, trends, and latest practices, including level and value of engagement provided
by Deloitte National Office when needed
• Quality and efficiency of the work performed
• External data on audit quality and performance, including the results from the PCAOB assessment of Deloitte and its
peer firms and Deloitte’s responsiveness to those reports
• Reasonableness of fees, considering the size and complexity of Allstate and the resources necessary to perform a
high-quality audit
• Knowledge of our operations, accounting policies and practices, and internal control over financial reporting
• Deloitte’s tenure as Allstate’s independent auditor and the firm's internal safeguards to maintain independence, the
benefits of having a long-tenured auditor and the impact of changing auditors
The Audit Committee also recognizes the importance of maintaining the independence of our independent registered
public accounting firm, both in fact and appearance, and has considered an auditor tenure limit. A rigorous review
of Deloitte’s capabilities, coupled with the comprehensive regulatory oversight structure in the United States led
by the PCAOB, has mitigated the need for tenure requirements. The audit committee will periodically engage in a
comprehensive process in which it makes a request for information (RFI) from multiple independent registered public
accounting firms. This information enables the audit committee to evaluate whether to request for proposals (RFP)
from these firms for further consideration of a change in its external auditor. The most recent RFI was performed in
2021 using criteria consistent with those set forth by the CAQ for purposes of evaluating external auditors. These
include quality measures and controls, controls designed to maintain independence and objectivity, service model
and approach, expertise, and diversity and equity practices. Ongoing monitoring of observable measures of these key
criteria as well as the breadth of relationships with other large, alternative firms will continue to ensure viable options
remain available if the committee determines it is in the best interests of the company to make a change.111100 2023 Proxy Statement
Audit Committee Matters
The Audit Committee also oversees the mandatory, five-year rotation of audit partners, in accordance with SEC rules
and approves Deloitte’s lead engagement partner. The lead engagement partner was appointed beginning with the
fiscal year 2022 audit. The process for selection of the lead engagement partner involves the screening of qualified
candidates, followed by interviews with the audit committee chair and management.
The Audit Committee has also adopted a policy regarding the pre-approval of all audit and permissible non-audit
services provided by the independent registered public accounting firm. The policy identifies the basic principles that
must be considered by the audit committee in approving services to ensure that the registered public accounting firm’s
independence is not impaired, describes the type of audit, audit-related, tax and other services that may be provided,
and lists the non-audit services that may not be performed. The independent registered public accounting firm or
management submits to the audit committee detailed schedules with all of the proposed services within each category,
together with the estimated fees. Each specific service requires approval before service can begin.
Prior to requesting approval from the audit committee, the registered public accounting firm and management consider
and conclude that the services are permissible in that they: (1) do not place the registered public accounting firm in
the position of auditing their own work, (2) do not result in the registered public accounting firm’s personnel acting as
management or an employee of Allstate, (3) do not place the registered public accounting firm in a position of being
an advocate for Allstate, (4) do not create a mutual or conflicting interest between the registered public accounting
firm and Allstate and (5) are not based on a contingent fee arrangement. The audit committee’s policy delegates to
the committee chair the authority to grant approvals, but the decisions of the committee chair must be reported to
the audit committee at its next regularly scheduled meeting. All services provided by Deloitte in 2021 and 2022 were
approved in accordance with this pre-approval policy.
The Audit Committee and the Board believe it is in the best interests of Allstate and its shareholders to continue
to retain Deloitte as Allstate’s independent registered public accounting firm. Deloitte's performance in the most
recent RFI assessment, as well as ongoing measurements of criteria such as quality measures and controls, controls
designed to maintain independence and objectivity, service model and approach, expertise, and diversity and equity
practices, ensures it will continue to provide excellent expertise and service. Deloitte’s high quality audit work and
accounting advice, deep institutional knowledge of the company’s business and operations, accounting policies and
financial systems, and internal control framework support continued utilization of their services.
The Audit Committee oversees and is ultimately responsible for the negotiation of audit fees associated with the
retention of Deloitte. The following fees have been, or are anticipated to be, billed by Deloitte, the member firms of
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, and their respective affiliates, for professional services rendered to Allstate for the fiscal
years ending December 31, 2021, and December 31, 2022.
2021(4) 2022
Audit fees(1) $13,511,000 $11,462,000
Audit-related fees(2) $ 1,316,000 $ 1,335,000
Tax fees(3) $ 208,000 $ 26,000
Total fees $15,035,000 $12,823,000
(1) Fees for audits of annual financial statements, reviews of quarterly financial statements, statutory audits, attest services, comfort letters, consents,
and review of documents filed with the SEC. The amounts disclosed in 2021 do not reflect $595,000 of reimbursements received for certain separate
account audit fees from the managing entity and from the buyers of ALIC, ALNY and certain affiliates. Prior year fees have been adjusted to reflect actual
expenditures for the year.
(2) Audit-related fees relate to professional services, such as accounting consultations relating to new accounting standards and audits, Service Organization
Controls audit reports and other attest services for non-consolidated affiliates (i.e., employee benefit plans, various trusts, etc.) and are set forth below.
2021 2022
Audits and other attest services for non-consolidated entities $ 321,000 $ 315,000
Other audit-related fees $ 995,000 $1,020,000
Total audit-related fees $1,316,000 $1,335,000
(3) Tax fees include income tax return preparation, compliance assistance, tax studies and research, and international tax planning.
(4) Total fees for 2021 decreased due to changes in planned projects.www.allstateproxy.com 111
Audit Committee Matters
Representatives of Deloitte will be present at the 2023 Annual Meeting to respond to questions and may make
a statement if they choose. If shareholders fail to ratify the appointment, the audit committee will reconsider the
appointment, but no assurance can be given that the audit committee will be able to change the appointment while
enabling timely completion of the 2023 audited financial statements.
Audit Committee Report
Deloitte & Touche LLP (Deloitte) was Allstate’s independent registered public accountant for the year ended
December 31, 2022.
The Audit Committee reviewed and discussed with management and the independent registered public accounting
firm the audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, as well as management’s assessment
of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting.
The Committee discussed with Deloitte the matters required to be discussed by the applicable requirements of
the PCAOB and the SEC. The committee received the written disclosures and letter from Deloitte that is required
by applicable requirements of the PCAOB regarding Deloitte’s communications with the committee concerning
independence and has discussed with Deloitte its independence.
The Audit Committee met in periodic executive sessions with each of management, the internal auditor, and the
independent registered public accounting firm to discuss the results of the examinations by the independent and
internal auditors, their evaluations of internal controls, and the overall quality of the company’s financial reporting, and
other matters as appropriate
Based on these reviews and discussions and other information considered by the committee in its judgment, the
committee recommended to the Board of Directors that the audited financial statements be included in Allstate’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, for filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, and furnished to shareholders with this Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement.
Kermit R. Crawford (CHAIR) Donald E. Brown
Siddharth N. Mehta Jacques P. Perold111122
Stock Ownership Information
Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers
The following table shows the Allstate common shares beneficially owned as of March 1, 2023, by each director and named
executive individually, and by all executive officers and directors of Allstate as a group. Shares reported as beneficially
owned include shares held indirectly through the Allstate 401(k) Savings Plan and other shares held indirectly. It also
includes shares subject to stock options exercisable, and restricted stock units subject to conversion into common shares,
within sixty days of March 1. As of March 1, 2023, none of these shares were pledged as security.
Amount and
Nature of Common
Beneficial Stock Subject
Ownership to Options
of Allstate Exercisable Total
Common on or Prior to Restricted Stock-Based Percent
Name of Beneficial Owner Stock(1) April 29, 2023 Stock Units(2) Ownership(3) of Class
Donald E. Brown 1,207 0 2,143 3,350 *
Kermit R. Crawford 1,000 0 18,105 19,105 *
Richard T. Hume 0 0 3,909 3,909 *
Margaret M. Keane 9,572 0 3,989 13,561 *
Siddharth N. Mehta 3,275 0 11,308 14,583 *
Jacques P. Perold 35 0 10,229 10,264 *
Andrea Redmond 2,000 0 24,530 26,530 *
Gregg M. Sherrill 4,400 0 3,989 8,389 *
Judith A. Sprieser 0 0 34,177 34,177 *
Perry M. Traquina 2,374 0 7,747 10,121 *
Monica Turner 0 0 456 456 *
Thomas J. Wilson 983,399 2,138,382 0 3,121,781 *
Jesse Merten 23,456 47,456 0 70,912 *
Mario Rizzo 61,771 206,399 0 268,170 *
John Dugenske 91,709 138,184 0 229,893 *
Suren Gupta 90,099 294,296 0 384,395 *
Robert Toohey 2,429 6,432 0 8,861 *
All directors and executive officers as a group (22 total) 1,343,589 3,103,906 120,582 4,568,077 1.7%
* Less than 1% of the outstanding shares of common stock.
(1) This column includes restricted stock units (RSUs) held by executive officers that convert into common shares by April 29, 2023.
(2) All non-employee directors hold RSUs granted under Allstate’s equity compensation plans for non-employee directors. This column lists those RSUs that
would be distributed to directors in the form of shares of common stock within 60 days if any of them were to have retired as a director on March 1, 2023.
Some directors hold additional RSUs that are not reflected in the table above because common stock would not be distributed to directors until at least
one year following his or her retirement as a director, or in some cases, as many as ten years following the date of grant. For more information regarding the
RSUs held by each director at the end of 2022, please see the details on page 50.
(3) These amounts are the sum of the number of shares shown in the prior columns. As of March 1, 2023, no director or executive officer beneficially owned
1% or more of the outstanding common stock of Allstate. The directors and executive officers of Allstate as a group beneficially owned (including common
stock subject to stock options exercisable and restricted stock units for which restrictions expire on or prior to April 29, 2023) approximately 1.7% of the
common stock outstanding as of March 1, 2023.www.allstateproxy.com 113
Stock Ownership Information
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
Amount and Nature of Percent
Title of Class Name and Address of Beneficial Owner Beneficial Ownership of Class
Common The Vanguard Group 100 Vanguard Boulevard 25,452,561(1) 9.6%
Malvern, PA 19355
Common BlackRock Inc. 55 East 52nd Street New York, 21,752,824(2) 8.2%
NY 10055
(1) Reflects shares beneficially owned as of December 31, 2022, as set forth in a Schedule 13G/A filed on February 9, 2023. Of these shares, The Vanguard
Group reported it held 0 shares with sole voting power; 374,763 shares with shared voting power; 24,318,916 shares with sole dispositive power; and
1,133,645 shares with shared dispositive power.
(2) Reflects shares beneficially owned as of December 31, 2022, as set forth in a Schedule 13G/A filed on February 3, 2023. Of these shares, BlackRock reported
it held 19,251,168 shares with sole voting power; 0 shares with shared voting power; 21,752,824 shares with sole dispositive power; and 0 shares with shared
dispositive power.
Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports
Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) requires Allstate’s executive officers, directors, and
persons who beneficially own more than 10% of Allstate’s common stock, or any other person subject to Section 16 of the
Exchange Act, to file reports of securities ownership and changes in such ownership with the SEC. Based upon a review
of copies of such reports, or written representations that all such reports were timely filed, Allstate believes that each of
its executive officers and directors complied with all Section 16(a) filing requirements applicable to them during 2022 with
the exception of one report for a stock option grant, which was inadvertently filed late for Thomas J. Wilson due to an
administrative error.111144
Other Information
Proxy and Voting Information
Who is Asking for My Vote and Why?
The Allstate Board of Directors is soliciting proxies for use at the annual meeting of shareholders to be held on May 23, 2023,
and any adjournments or postponements of the meeting. The annual meeting will be held only if there is a quorum, which
means that a majority of the outstanding common stock entitled to vote is represented at the meeting by proxy or in person.
To ensure there will be a quorum, the Allstate Board asks you to vote before the meeting, which allows your Allstate stock to
be represented at the annual meeting.
Who Can Vote at the Annual Meeting?
The Allstate Board has set the close of business on March 24, 2023, as the record date for the meeting. This means that
you are entitled to vote if you were a shareholder of record at the close of business on March 24, 2023. On that date, there
were 263,166,635 shares of Allstate common stock outstanding and entitled to vote at the annual meeting.
Why Did I Receive a Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials Instead of
the Proxy Materials?
We distribute our proxy materials to most shareholders over the Internet using “Notice and Access” delivery, as permitted
by the rules of the SEC. We elected to use this method for most shareholders as it reduces our print and mail costs and the
environmental impact of our annual shareholders’ meeting.
How Do I Vote?
Instructions on how to vote your shares are included on the Notice on page 6. If you hold shares in your own name as
a registered shareholder, you may vote by participating in the annual meeting, or you may instruct the proxies how to
vote your shares by following the instructions on the proxy card/voting instruction form. If you plan to participate in the
meeting, please see the details on page 7.
If you hold shares in street name (that is, through a broker, bank, or other record holder), you should follow the instructions
provided by your broker, bank, or other record holder to vote your shares.
If you hold shares through the Allstate 401(k) Savings Plan, please see the instructions on pages 116-117.
Can I Change My Vote?
Before your shares have been voted at the annual meeting by the proxies, you may change or revoke your voting
instructions by providing instructions again by telephone, by Internet, in writing, or, if you are a registered shareholder, by
voting at the annual meeting.
Are the Votes Kept Confidential?
All proxies and tabulations that identify the vote of a particular shareholder are confidential, except as necessary to allow
the inspector of election to certify the voting results or to meet certain legal requirements. A representative of American
Election Services, LLC will act as the inspector of election and will count the votes. The representative is independent of
Allstate and its directors, officers, and employees.
If you write a comment on your proxy card or voting instruction form, it may be provided to our Secretary along with your
name and address.www.allstateproxy.com 115
Other Information
Your comments will be provided without reference to how you voted, unless the vote is mentioned in your comment or
unless disclosure of the vote is necessary to understand your comment. At our request, the distribution agent or the
solicitation agent will provide us with periodic status reports on the aggregate vote. These status reports may include a list
of shareholders who have not voted and breakdowns of vote totals by different types of shareholders, as long as we are not
able to determine how a particular shareholder voted.
What Happens If I Submit a Signed Proxy Card but Do Not Indicate How I Want
to Vote?
You may instruct the proxies to vote “FOR” or “AGAINST” on each proposal, other than Proposal 3 on which you are allowed
to choose one year, two years or three years, or you may instruct the proxies to “ABSTAIN” from voting. If you submit a
signed proxy card/voting instruction form to allow your shares to be represented at the annual meeting but do not indicate
how your shares should be voted on one or more proposals, then the proxies will vote your shares as the Board of Directors
recommends on those proposals. Other than the proposals listed on pages 14-17, we do not know of any other matters to
be presented at the meeting. If any other matters are properly presented at the meeting, the proxies may vote your shares
in accordance with their best judgment.
What Vote Is Needed to Approve Each Item?
Shares of common stock represented by a properly completed proxy card/voting instruction form will be counted as
present at the meeting for purposes of determining a quorum, even if the shareholder is abstaining from voting.
Proposal 1. To be elected under Allstate’s majority vote standard, each director must receive an affirmative vote of the
majority of the votes cast. In other words, the number of shares voted “FOR” a director must exceed 50% of the votes cast
on that director. Abstentions will not be counted as votes cast and will have no impact on the vote’s outcome.
Proposals 2 – 4. Except for Proposal 3, a majority of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting
and entitled to vote must be voted “FOR” the proposal. Abstentions will have the effect of a vote against the proposal,
except for Proposal 3, which they will have no effect on. With respect to Proposal 3, if none of the three frequency
choices receive a majority vote, the Board will consider the frequency that receives a plurality of the votes cast as the
recommendation of the shareholders.
Are Broker Non-votes Counted at the Meeting?
Brokers and banks have discretionary authority to vote shares in the absence of instructions on matters the NYSE
considers “routine,” such as the ratification of the appointment of the auditors. They do not have discretionary authority
to vote shares in the absence of instructions on “non-routine” matters, such as the election of directors, say-on-pay and
frequency of say-on-pay. Broker non-votes will not be counted as shares entitled to vote on any of the foregoing non-
routine matters and will have no impact on the vote’s outcome.
What Is “householding” and How Does It Affect Me?
Allstate has adopted the “householding” procedure approved by the SEC, which allows us to deliver one set of documents
to a household of shareholders instead of delivering a set to each shareholder in a household, unless we have been
instructed otherwise. This procedure is more environmentally friendly and cost-effective because it reduces the number of
copies to be printed and mailed. Shareholders who receive proxy materials in paper form will continue to receive separate
proxy cards/voting instruction forms to vote their shares. Shareholders who receive the Notice of Internet Availability of
Proxy Materials will receive instructions on submitting their proxy cards/voting instruction form via the Internet.
If you would like to change your householding election, request that a single copy of the proxy materials be sent to your
address, or request a separate copy of the proxy materials, please contact our distribution agent, Broadridge Financial
Solutions, by calling (866) 540-7095 or by writing to Broadridge Householding Department, 51 Mercedes Way, Edgewood,
NY 11717. We will promptly deliver the proxy materials to you upon receipt of your request. If you hold your shares in street
name, please contact your bank, broker, or other record holder to request information about householding.111166 2023 Proxy Statement
Other Information
If you receive more than one proxy card/voting instruction form, your shares probably are registered in more than one
account or you may hold shares both as a registered shareholder and through the Allstate 401(k) Savings Plan. You should
vote each proxy card/voting instruction form you receive.
Where Can I Find the Results of the Annual Meeting?
Preliminary results will be announced at the meeting, and final results will be reported in a current report on Form 8-K,
which is expected to be filed with the SEC within four business days after the meeting.
Who Will Pay the Cost of This Proxy Solicitation?
Allstate pays the cost of this proxy solicitation. Officers and other employees of Allstate and its subsidiaries may solicit
proxies by mail, personal interview, telephone, facsimile, electronic means, or via the Internet. None of these individuals will
receive special compensation for soliciting votes, which will be performed in addition to their regular duties, and some of
them may not necessarily solicit proxies. Allstate also has made arrangements with brokerage firms, banks, record holders,
and other fiduciaries to forward proxy solicitation materials to the beneficial owners of shares they hold on your behalf.
Allstate will reimburse these intermediaries for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses. Alliance Advisors, 200 Broadacres Drive,
3rd Floor, Bloomfield, NJ 07003 has been retained to assist in the solicitation of proxies for a fee of $20,000 plus expenses.
How Do I Submit Shareholder Proposals or Director Nominations for the 2024
Annual Meeting?
Proposals that shareholders would like to include in Allstate’s proxy materials for presentation at the 2024 Annual Meeting
must be received by the Office of the Secretary by December 12, 2023, and must otherwise comply with SEC rules in order
to be eligible for inclusion in the proxy materials for the 2024 Annual Meeting.
If a shareholder would like to bring a matter before the meeting that is not the subject of a proposal that meets the SEC
proxy rule requirements for inclusion in the proxy statement, the shareholder must follow procedures in Allstate’s bylaws in
order to personally present the proposal at the meeting.
One of the procedural requirements in the bylaws is timely notice in writing of the business the shareholder proposes to
bring before the meeting. Notice of business proposed to be brought before the 2024 annual meeting must be received by
the Office of the Secretary no earlier than the close of business on January 24, 2024 and no later than the close of business
on February 23, 2024. Among other things, the notice must describe the business proposed to be brought before the
meeting, the reasons for conducting the business at the meeting, and any material interest of the shareholder in
the business.
A shareholder also may directly nominate someone for election as a director at a shareholders’ meeting. Under our bylaws,
a shareholder may nominate a candidate at the 2024 annual meeting by providing advance notice to Allstate to the Office
of the Secretary that is received no earlier than the close of business on January 24, 2024, and no later than the close of
business on February 23, 2024. For proxy access nominees to be considered at the 2024 annual meeting, the nomination
notice must be received by the Office of the Secretary no earlier than the close of business on November 12, 2023, and
no later than the close of business on December 12, 2023. Among other things, the notice must include the information
and documents described in Section 20 of the company’s bylaws. In addition, shareholders who intend to solicit proxies in
support of director nominees other than the company’s nominees must also comply with the additional requirements of
Rule 14a-19(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
A copy of the procedures and requirements related to the above matters is available upon request from the Office of the
Secretary or can be found on Allstate’s website, www.allstateinvestors.com. The notices required above must be sent to the
Office of the Secretary, The Allstate Corporation, 3100 Sanders Road, Northbrook, IL 60062.www.allstateproxy.com 117
Other Information
How Do I Vote If I Hold Shares Through the 401(k) Savings Plan?
If you hold Allstate common shares through the Allstate 401(k) Savings Plan, your proxy card/voting instruction form
for those shares will instruct the plan trustee how to vote those shares. If you received your annual meeting materials
electronically, and you hold Allstate common shares both through the plan and also directly as a registered shareholder,
the voting instructions you provide electronically will be applied to both your plan shares and your registered shares. If
you return a signed proxy card/voting instruction form or vote by telephone or the Internet on a timely basis, the trustee
will follow your voting instructions for all Allstate common shares allocated to your plan account unless that would be
inconsistent with the trustee’s duties.
If your voting instructions are not received on a timely basis, the shares allocated to your plan account will be considered
“unvoted.” If you return a signed proxy card/voting instruction form but do not indicate how your shares should be voted on
a given matter, the shares represented by your proxy card/voting instruction form will be voted as the Board of Directors
recommends. The trustee will vote all unvoted shares held by the plan as follows:
• If the trustee receives instructions (through voting instruction forms or through telephonic or Internet instruction) on a
timely basis for at least 50% of the votable shares in the plan, then it will vote all unvoted shares in the same proportion
and in the same manner as the shares for which timely instructions have been received, unless to do so would be
inconsistent with the trustee’s duties.
• If the trustee receives instructions for less than 50% of the votable shares, the trustee will vote all unvoted shares at its
sole discretion. However, the trustee will not use its discretionary authority to vote on adjournment of the meeting in
order to solicit further proxies.
Plan votes receive the same high level of confidentiality as all other votes. You may not vote the shares allocated to
your plan account by voting at the meeting. You must instruct The Northern Trust Company, as trustee for the plan, how to
vote your shares.
How Can I Inspect a List of Shareholders Entitled to Vote at the Meeting?
Shareholders wishing to inspect the list of registered shareholders of The Allstate Corporation as of the record date for
the 2023 Annual Meeting of Shareholders should send an e-mail to invrel@allstate.com. Please include (1) your name and
(2) if you hold your shares through a broker, bank or other intermediary, an image of your stock ownership statement.
Upon verification of your status as a shareholder, you will be provided access to view and inspect the list of registered
shareholders as of the record date. Shareholders will not be able to download or print the list.
.
By order of the Board,
Christine DeBiase
Secretary
April 10, 2023111188 2023 Proxy Statement
Other Information
Appendix A – Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures
Measures that are not based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“non-GAAP”)
are defined and reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measure. We believe that investors’ understanding of
Allstate’s performance is enhanced by our disclosure of the following non-GAAP measures. Our methods for calculating
these measures may differ from those used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited.
Adjusted net income (loss) is net income (loss) applicable to common shareholders, excluding:
• Net gains and losses on investments and derivatives
• Pension and other postretirement remeasurement gains and losses
• Business combination expenses and the amortization or impairment of purchased intangibles
• Income or loss from discontinued operations
• Gain or loss on disposition
• Adjustments for other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items, when (a) the nature of the charge or gain is
such that it is reasonably unlikely to recur within two years, or (b) there has been no similar charge or gain within the prior
two years
• Related income tax expense or benefit of these items
Net income (loss) applicable to common shareholders is the GAAP measure that is most directly comparable to adjusted
net income.
We use adjusted net income as an important measure to evaluate our results of operations. We believe that the measure
provides investors with a valuable measure of the Company’s ongoing performance because it reveals trends in our
insurance and financial services business that may be obscured by the net effect of net gains and losses on investments
and derivatives, pension and other postretirement remeasurement gains and losses, business combination expenses and
the amortization or impairment of purchased intangibles, income or loss from discontinued operations, gain or loss on
disposition and adjustments for other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items and the related tax expense
or benefit of these items. Net gains and losses on investments and derivatives, and pension and other postretirement
remeasurement gains and losses may vary significantly between periods and are generally driven by business decisions
and external economic developments such as capital market conditions, the timing of which is unrelated to the insurance
underwriting process.
Business combination expenses, income or loss from discontinued operations and gain or loss on disposition are excluded
because they are non-recurring in nature and the amortization or impairment of purchased intangibles is excluded because
it relates to the acquisition purchase price and is not indicative of our underlying business results or trends.
Non-recurring items are excluded because, by their nature, they are not indicative of our business or economic trends.
Accordingly, adjusted net income excludes the effect of items that tend to be highly variable from period to period and
highlights the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of our business. A byproduct of excluding
these items to determine adjusted net income is the transparency and understanding of their significance to net income
variability and profitability while recognizing these or similar items may recur in subsequent periods.
Adjusted net income is used by management along with the other components of net income (loss) applicable to common
shareholders to assess our performance. We use adjusted measures of adjusted net income in incentive compensation.
Therefore, we believe it is useful for investors to evaluate net income (loss) applicable to common shareholders, adjusted
net income and their components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing and evaluating our performance.
We note that investors, financial analysts, financial and business media organizations and rating agencies utilize adjusted
net income results in their evaluation of our and our industry’s financial performance and in their investment decisions,
recommendations and communications as it represents a reliable, representative and consistent measurement of the
industry and the Company and management’s performance. We note that the price to earnings multiple commonly used
by insurance investors as a forward-looking valuation technique uses adjusted net income as the denominator. Adjusted
net income should not be considered a substitute for net income (loss) applicable to common shareholders and does not
reflect the overall profitability of our business.www.allstateproxy.com 119
Other Information
The following table reconciles net income (loss) applicable to common shareholders and adjusted net income for the years
ended December 31.
Per diluted common share
($ in millions, except per share data) 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
Net income (loss) applicable to common shareholders $(1,416) $ 1,485 $ 5,461 $ (5.22)(2) $ 4.96 $17.31
Net (gains) losses on investments and derivatives 1,072 (1,084) (1,087) 3.95 (3.63) (3.44)
Pension and other postretirement remeasurement (gains) losses 116 (644) (51) 0.43 (2.15) (0.16)
Curtailment (gains) losses — — (8) — — (0.03)
Business combination expenses and the amortization of purchased 353 398 118 1.30 1.33 0.37
intangibles
Business combination fair value adjustment — (6) — — (0.02) —
(Gain) loss on disposition (89)(1) — — (0.33) — —
(Income) loss from discontinued operations — 3,612 (157) — 12.08 (0.50)
Income tax expense (benefit) and other (298) 272 234 (1.10) 0.91 0.74
Adjusted net income (loss) * $ (262) $ 4,033 $ 4,510 $ (0.97)(2) $13.48 $14.29
(1) Includes $83 million related to the gain on sale of the headquarters in the fourth quarter of 2022 reported as other revenue in the Corporate and
Other segment.
(2) Due to a net loss reported for the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, calculation uses weighted average shares of 271.2 million, which excludes
weighted average diluted shares of 3.1 million.
Combined Ratio excluding the effect of catastrophes, prior year reserve reestimates and amortization or impairment
of purchased intangibles (“underlying combined ratio”) is a non-GAAP ratio, which is computed as the difference
between four GAAP operating ratios: the combined ratio, the effect of catastrophes on the combined ratio, the effect of
prior year non-catastrophe reserve reestimates on the combined ratio, and the effect of amortization or impairment of
purchased intangibles on the combined ratio. We believe that this ratio is useful to investors and it is used by management
to reveal the trends in our Property-Liability business that may be obscured by catastrophe losses, prior year reserve
reestimates and amortization or impairment of purchased intangibles. Catastrophe losses cause our loss trends to vary
significantly between periods as a result of their incidence of occurrence and magnitude, and can have a significant impact
on the combined ratio. Prior year reserve reestimates are caused by unexpected loss development on historical reserves,
which could increase or decrease current year net income. Amortization or impairment of purchased intangibles relates
to the acquisition purchase price and is not indicative of our underlying insurance business results or trends. We believe
it is useful for investors to evaluate these components separately and in the aggregate when reviewing our underwriting
performance. The most directly comparable GAAP measure is the combined ratio. The underlying combined ratio should
not be considered a substitute for the combined ratio and does not reflect the overall underwriting profitability of
our business.
The following table reconciles the Property-Liability combined ratio to the Property-Liability underlying combined ratio for
the years ended December 31.
2022 2021 2020
Combined Ratio 106.6 95.9 87.6
Effect of catastrophe losses (7.1) (8.3) (7.9)
Effect of prior year non-catastrophe reserve reestimates (3.9) (0.8) (0.2)
Effect of amortization of purchased intangibles (0.5) (0.6) (0.1)
Underlying combined ratio* 95.1 86.2 79.4
Effect of prior year catastrophe reserve reestimates — (0.5) (1.4)
Adjusted net income return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity is a ratio that uses a non-GAAP measure. It is
calculated by dividing the rolling 12-month adjusted net income by the average of Allstate common shareholders’ equity
at the beginning and at the end of the 12-months, after excluding the effect of unrealized net capital gains and losses.
Return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity is the most directly comparable GAAP measure. We use adjusted net
income as the numerator for the same reasons we use adjusted net income, as discussed previously. We use average
Allstate common shareholders’ equity excluding the effect of unrealized net capital gains and losses for the denominator112200 2023 Proxy Statement
Other Information
as a representation of common shareholders’ equity primarily applicable to Allstate’s earned and realized business
operations because it eliminates the effect of items that are unrealized and vary significantly between periods due to
external economic developments such as capital market conditions like changes in equity prices and interest rates, the
amount and timing of which are unrelated to the insurance underwriting process. We use it to supplement our evaluation
of net income (loss) applicable to common shareholders and return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity because it
excludes the effect of items that tend to be highly variable from period to period. We believe that this measure is useful
to investors and that it provides a valuable tool for investors when considered along with return on Allstate common
shareholders’ equity because it eliminates the after-tax effects of realized and unrealized net capital gains and losses that
can fluctuate significantly from period to period and that are driven by economic developments, the magnitude and timing
of which are generally not influenced by management. In addition, it eliminates non-recurring items that are not indicative
of our ongoing business or economic trends. A byproduct of excluding the items noted above to determine adjusted
net income return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity from return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity is the
transparency and understanding of their significance to return on common shareholders’ equity variability and profitability
while recognizing these or similar items may recur in subsequent periods. We use adjusted measures of adjusted net
income return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity in incentive compensation. Therefore, we believe it is useful for
investors to have adjusted net income return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity and return on Allstate common
shareholders’ equity when evaluating our performance. We note that investors, financial analysts, financial and business
media organizations and rating agencies utilize adjusted net income return on common shareholders’ equity results in
their evaluation of our and our industry’s financial performance and in their investment decisions, recommendations and
communications as it represents a reliable, representative and consistent measurement of the industry and the company
and management’s utilization of capital. We also provide it to facilitate a comparison to our long-term adjusted net income
return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity goal. Adjusted net income return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity
should not be considered a substitute for return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity and does not reflect the overall
profitability of our business.
The following tables reconcile return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity and adjusted net income return on Allstate
common shareholders’ equity for the years ended December 31.
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity
Numerator:
Net income applicable to common shareholders $(1,416) $ 1,485 $ 5,461
Denominator:
Beginning Allstate common shareholders’ equity $23,209 $28,247 $23,750
Ending Allstate common shareholders’ equity(1) 15,505 23,209 28,247
Average Allstate common shareholders’ equity $19,357 $25,728 $25,999
Return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity (7.3)% 5.8% 21.0%
2022 2021 2020
Adjusted net income return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity
Numerator:
Adjusted net income* $ (262) $ 4,033 $ 4,510
Denominator:
Beginning Allstate common shareholders’ equity $23,209 $28,247 $23,750
Less: Unrealized net capital gains and losses 598 3,180 1,887
Adjusted beginning Allstate common shareholders’ equity 22,611 25,067 21,863
Ending Allstate common shareholders’ equity(1) 15,505 23,209 28,247
Less: Unrealized net capital gains and losses (2,253) 598 3,180
Adjusted ending Allstate common shareholders’ equity 17,758 22,611 25,067
Average adjusted Allstate common shareholders’ equity $20,185 $23,839 $23,465
Adjusted net income return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity* (1.3)% 16.9% 19.2%
(1) Excludes equity related to preferred stock of $1,970 million at December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020.www.allstateproxy.com 121
Other Information
Appendix B – Categorical Standards of Independence
In accordance with the Director Independence Standards, the Board has determined that the nature of the following
relationships with the corporation do not create a conflict of interest that would impair a director’s independence.
1. An Allstate director’s relationship arising from (i) only such director’s position as a director of another corporation or
organization; (ii) only such director’s direct or indirect ownership of a 5% or less equity interest in another corporation or
organization (other than a partnership); (iii) both such position and such ownership; or (iv) such director’s position only as
a limited partner in a partnership in which he or she has an interest of 5% or less.
2. An Allstate director’s relationship arising from an interest of the director, or any entity in which the director is an
employee, director, partner, shareholder or officer, in or under any standard-form insurance policy or other financial
product offered by the Allstate Group in the ordinary course of business.
3. An Allstate director’s relationship with another company that participates in a transaction with the Allstate Group
(i) where the rates or charges involved are determined by competitive bid or (ii) where the transaction involves the
rendering of services as a common or contract carrier (including any airline) or public utility at rates or charges fixed in
conformity with law or governmental authority.
4. An Allstate director’s relationship with another company that has made payments to, or received payments from, the
Allstate Group for property or services in an amount which, in the last fiscal year, does not exceed the greater of $1
million or 2% of such other company’s consolidated gross revenues for such year.
5. An Allstate director’s position as an executive officer of a tax-exempt organization to which the aggregate amount of
discretionary contributions (other than employee matching contributions) made by the Allstate Group and The Allstate
Foundation in any of the last three fiscal years of the tax-exempt organization were equal to or less than the greater of
$1 million or 2% of such organization’s consolidated gross revenues for such year.
6. An Allstate director’s relationship with another company (i) in which the Allstate Group makes investments or (ii) which
invests in securities issued by the Allstate Group or securities backed by any product issued by the Allstate Group, all
in the ordinary course of such entity’s investment business and on terms and under circumstances similar to those
available to or from entities unaffiliated with such director.112222 2023 Proxy Statement
Other Information
Appendix C – Executive Officers
The following table lists the names and titles of our executive officers as of April 1, 2023. AIC refers to Allstate
Insurance Company.
Name Principal Positions and Offices Held
Thomas J. Wilson Chair of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer of The Allstate Corporation and AIC.
Elizabeth A. Brady Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing, Customer and Communications Officer of AIC.
Christine DeBiase Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary of The Allstate
Corporation and AIC.
John E. Dugenske President, Investments and Corporate Strategy of AIC.
Suren Gupta President, Enterprise Solutions of AIC.
Jesse E. Merten Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Allstate Corporation and AIC.
John C. Pintozzi Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of The Allstate Corporation and AIC
Mark Prindiville Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of AIC.
Mario Rizzo President, Property-Liability of AIC.
Robert Toohey Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of AIC.
Terrance Williams Executive Vice President and President, Protection Products and Services of AIC.123
Helpful Links and Resources
About Allstate Common Acronyms Used
Company Website ASC Affordable, Simple, Connected
https://www.allstate.com/ AIP Allstate Identity Protection
CIC Change in Control
Allstate Foundation
ELFS Extremely Low Frequency Scenarios
https://allstatefoundation.org/?_
ERRM Enterprise Risk and Return Management
ga=2.233644824.70414277.1634117375-1354564632.1627444396
ESG Environmental, Social and Governance
ESG/Sustainability
GHG Greenhouse Gas
https://www.allstatesustainability.com/
IDE Inclusive Diversity and Equity
NYSE New York Stock Exchange
Governance
ORSA Own Risk and Solvency Assessment
PSA Performance Stock Awards
Overview
ROE Return on Equity
https://www.allstateinvestors.com/governance
SEC Securities and Exchange Commission
Corporate Governance Guidelines TSR Total Shareholder Return
https://www.allstateinvestors.com/static-files/b32c67db-6f4a-
4afb-9c2d-ffe5d2b1b12a
Sustainability
Bylaws of The Allstate Corporation
https://www.allstateinvestors.com/static-files/dd3f893c-035f- Overview
4896-a82c-a3e5ae606a51 https://www.allstatesustainability.com
Audit Committee Charter ESG Summary
https://www.allstateinvestors.com/static-files/3dfddc3a-6f10- https://www.allstatesustainability.com/content/
4c3e-b154-bd3db57aafc4 documents/ESG%20Summary.pdf
Compensation and Human Capital Committee Charter Sustainability Report
https://www.allstateinvestors.com/static-files/3d99e53e-579a- https://www.allstatesustainability.com/content/
4e46-9bdd-338c50702ec4 documents/ALL_CSR21_final.pdf
Executive Committee Charter TCFD Report
https://www.allstateinvestors.com/static-files/275b63c0-6823- https://www.allstatesustainability.com/content/
4678-add2-9fcd161330fc documents/TCFD_2022.pdf
Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility CDP Climate Response
Committee Charter https://www.allstatesustainability.com/content/
https://www.allstateinvestors.com/static-files/94ae2405-05d8- documents/cdp/Allstate%202021.pdf
4fab-b435-1798d7ab91ff
GRI Index
Risk and Return Committee Charter https://www.allstatesustainability.com/gri
https://www.allstateinvestors.com/static-files/140622f6-f4ca-
4e14-9d40-cbd88a549f25 SASB Index
https://www.allstatesustainability.com/content/
Code of Conduct documents/SASB_Index_2021.pdf?v2022
https://www.allstateinvestors.com/governance/code-conduct
EEO-1 Report
https://www.allstatesustainability.com/content/
documents/2021EEO1Report_SummaryPage.pdf2022 Annual Report
Table of Contents
Page
Business 126
• Overview 126
• Strategy and Segment Information 127
– Allstate Protection 129
– Protection Services 134
– Allstate Health and Benefits 135
– Other Business Segments 136
Forward-Looking Statements 137
Common Stock Performance Graph 138
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 139
2022 Highlights 139
Property-Liability Operations 144
Allstate Protection 146
Run-off Property-Liability 154
Protection Services 157
Property and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves 159
Allstate Health and Benefits 166
Investments 169
Market Risk 178
Capital Resources and Liquidity 181
Enterprise Risk and Return Management 186
Application of Critical Accounting Estimates 189
Regulation and Legal Proceedings 200
Pending Accounting Standards 200
Consolidated Financial Statements 201
Consolidated Statements of Operations 201
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) 202
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 203
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity 204
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 205
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 206
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 285
125 www.allstate.comBusiness Segment Information Segment Information Business
Business Strategy, Transformative Growth, Our Shared Purpose and Segment Information
The Allstate Corporation was incorporated under Allstate also has strong market positions in other Our strategy has two components: increase personal property-liability market share (see Allstate Protection
the laws of the State of Delaware on November 5, 1992, protection solutions. Allstate Health and Benefits segment) and expand protection offerings by leveraging the Allstate brand, customer base and capabilities.
to serve as the holding company for Allstate Insurance provides accident, health and life insurance through
Transformative Growth is about creating a business model, capabilities and culture that continually transform to
Company. Its business is conducted principally through employers, independent agents and direct-to-
better serve customers. This is done by providing affordable, simple and connected protection through multiple
Allstate Insurance Company and other subsidiaries consumer, and is one of the top voluntary benefits
distribution partners. The ultimate objective is to create continuous transformative growth in all businesses.
(collectively, including The Allstate Corporation, carriers in the market. Allstate Protection Plans
“Allstate”). provides protection on a wide variety of consumer We are expanding protection services businesses utilizing enterprise capabilities and resources such as
goods such as cell phones, tablets, computers, distribution, analytics, claims, investment expertise, talent and capital. Using innovative growth platforms (such as
Allstate protects people from life’s uncertainties
furniture and appliances, and has a leading position in telematics and identity protection) and broad distribution including: Allstate exclusive agents, independent agents,
with a wide array of protection for autos, homes and
distribution through major retailers. Allstate Identity contact centers, online, retailers, workplace benefits brokers, auto dealers, original equipment manufacturers and
personal property. Allstate is primarily engaged in the
Protection has a leading position in identity protection telecom providers further enhance our customer value proposition.
property and casualty insurance business in the United
through worksite distribution. In total, Allstate had
States and Canada. Additionally, Allstate provides
189.1 million policies in force (“PIF”) as of December 31,
customers other protection solutions such as accident
2022.
and health insurance, protection plans that cover
consumer electronics, mobile phones and appliances In this Annual Report, we occasionally refer to
and personal identity protection. statutory financial information. All domestic United
States insurance companies are required to prepare
The Allstate Corporation is one of the largest
statutory-basis financial statements. As a result,
publicly held personal lines insurers in the United
industry data is available that enables comparisons
States. Allstate’s personal property-liability strategy is
between insurance companies, including competitors
to increase market share by offering consumers a
that are not required to prepare financial statements in
broad suite of protection solutions and a competitive
conformity with accounting principles generally
value proposition across distribution channels. The
accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). We
Allstate brand is widely known through the “You’re In
frequently use industry publications containing
Good Hands With Allstate®” slogan. Allstate is the third
statutory financial information to assess our
largest personal property and casualty insurer in the
competitive position.
United States on the basis of 2021 statutory direct
premiums written according to A.M. Best.
126 2022 Annual Report
127 www.allstate.comBusiness Segment Information Segment Information Business
Business Strategy, Transformative Growth, Our Shared Purpose and Segment Information
The Allstate Corporation was incorporated under Allstate also has strong market positions in other Our strategy has two components: increase personal property-liability market share (see Allstate Protection
the laws of the State of Delaware on November 5, 1992, protection solutions. Allstate Health and Benefits segment) and expand protection offerings by leveraging the Allstate brand, customer base and capabilities.
to serve as the holding company for Allstate Insurance provides accident, health and life insurance through
Transformative Growth is about creating a business model, capabilities and culture that continually transform to
Company. Its business is conducted principally through employers, independent agents and direct-to-
better serve customers. This is done by providing affordable, simple and connected protection through multiple
Allstate Insurance Company and other subsidiaries consumer, and is one of the top voluntary benefits
distribution partners. The ultimate objective is to create continuous transformative growth in all businesses.
(collectively, including The Allstate Corporation, carriers in the market. Allstate Protection Plans
“Allstate”). provides protection on a wide variety of consumer We are expanding protection services businesses utilizing enterprise capabilities and resources such as
goods such as cell phones, tablets, computers, distribution, analytics, claims, investment expertise, talent and capital. Using innovative growth platforms (such as
Allstate protects people from life’s uncertainties
furniture and appliances, and has a leading position in telematics and identity protection) and broad distribution including: Allstate exclusive agents, independent agents,
with a wide array of protection for autos, homes and
distribution through major retailers. Allstate Identity contact centers, online, retailers, workplace benefits brokers, auto dealers, original equipment manufacturers and
personal property. Allstate is primarily engaged in the
Protection has a leading position in identity protection telecom providers further enhance our customer value proposition.
property and casualty insurance business in the United
through worksite distribution. In total, Allstate had
States and Canada. Additionally, Allstate provides
189.1 million policies in force (“PIF”) as of December 31,
customers other protection solutions such as accident
2022.
and health insurance, protection plans that cover
consumer electronics, mobile phones and appliances In this Annual Report, we occasionally refer to
and personal identity protection. statutory financial information. All domestic United
States insurance companies are required to prepare
The Allstate Corporation is one of the largest
statutory-basis financial statements. As a result,
publicly held personal lines insurers in the United
industry data is available that enables comparisons
States. Allstate’s personal property-liability strategy is
between insurance companies, including competitors
to increase market share by offering consumers a
that are not required to prepare financial statements in
broad suite of protection solutions and a competitive
conformity with accounting principles generally
value proposition across distribution channels. The
accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). We
Allstate brand is widely known through the “You’re In
frequently use industry publications containing
Good Hands With Allstate®” slogan. Allstate is the third
statutory financial information to assess our
largest personal property and casualty insurer in the
competitive position.
United States on the basis of 2021 statutory direct
premiums written according to A.M. Best.
126 2022 Annual Report
127 www.allstate.comBusiness Segment Information Segment Information Business
Allstate Protection Segment
Our Shared Purpose Our Allstate Protection segment accounted for 92.0% of Allstate’s 2022 consolidated insurance premiums and
contract charges and 20.4% of Allstate’s December 31, 2022 PIF. Private passenger auto, homeowners, other personal
As the good hands... our values our operating standards our behaviors
lines and commercial insurance products offered through both exclusive and independent agents and directly through
• We empower customers • Integrity is non-negotiable. • Focus on Customers by • Collaborate early and
contact centers and online are included in this segment. Our strategy is to offer products that allow customers to
with protection to help anticipating and exceeding often to develop and
them achieve their hopes • Inclusive Diversity & service expectations at low implement comprehensive interact with us when, where and how they want with affordable, simple and connected protection products.
and dreams. Equity values and costs. solutions and share
leverages unique identities learnings. Strategy Allstate Protection’s strategy is to increase personal lines market share through Transformative Growth
• We provide affordable, with equitable opportunity • Be the Best at protecting focusing on:
simple and connected and rewards. customers, developing • Challenge Ideas to
• Improving customer value by making it easier to do business with us, improving price competitiveness and
protection solutions. talent and running our leverage collective
• Collective Success is businesses. expertise, evaluate multiple providing competitive differentiated products and experiences
• We create opportunity achieved through empathy alternatives and create the • Expanding customer access to Allstate and National General products and services through the methods of
for our team, economic and prioritizing enterprise • Be Bold with original ideas best path forward.
value for our shareholders outcomes ahead of using speed and interaction customers want
and improve communities. individuals. conviction to beat the • Provide Clarity for
• Increasing sophistication and investment in customer acquisition
competition. expected outcomes,
decision authority and • Modernizing our technology to enhance the customer experience and product management ecosystems
• Earn Attractive Returns accountability.
by providing customer • Driving organizational transformation
value, proactively • Provide Feedback that is
We have three market-facing property-liability businesses, Allstate brand, National General and Answer Financial
accepting risk and using candid, actionable,
analytics. independent of hierarchy with products and services that cater to different customer preferences for advice and brand recognition.
and safe.
Reportable segments
Includes the Allstate brand, National General and Answer Financial. Offers private passenger auto,
homeowners, other personal lines and commercial insurance through agents, contact centers and
Allstate Protection (1)
online. The Encompass brand was combined into National General beginning in the first quarter of
2021 and results prior to 2021 reflect Encompass brand results only.
Includes Allstate Protection Plans, Allstate Dealer Services, Allstate Roadside, Arity and Allstate
Protection Services Identity Protection, which offer a broad range of solutions and services that expand and enhance our
customer value propositions.
Offers voluntary benefits and individual life and health products, including life, accident, critical illness,
Allstate Health and short-term disability and other health insurance products sold through independent agents, benefits
Benefits brokers and Allstate exclusive agents. Also provides stop-loss and fully insured group health products
to employers and short-term medical and medicare supplement insurance to individuals. We serve our consumers using differentiated products, analytical expertise, telematics and an integrated digital
Run-off Property- Relates to property and casualty insurance policies written during the 1960s through the mid-1980s enterprise that leverages data and technology to execute processes with a focus on greater effectiveness and
Liability (1) with exposure to asbestos, environmental and other claims in run-off. efficiency.
Corporate and Other Includes holding company activities and certain non-insurance operations.
Transformative Growth
(1) Allstate Protection and Run-off Property-Liability segments comprise Property-Liability. Improving the competitive prices of products through lower costs, increased price sophistication and
telematics
Improve Customer
Increasing engagement with the Allstate Mobile app and new business penetration of telematics
Value
products, including pay-per-mile insurance
Providing additional consumer-focused protection solutions
Transforming our Allstate agent sales system to enable more growth at a lower cost by incenting
agents to focus on sales, while expanding our distribution capacity through new agent models
Expand Customer Increasing direct channel distribution through improved online experience and data-driven insights to
Access enhance call center sales
Growing National General by leveraging the Allstate brand capabilities and data to expand product
offerings and fully utilize our independent agency relationships
Increase
Sophistication and
Improving the effectiveness of customer acquisition by expanding lead management, building data
Investment in
capabilities and utilizing household insights
Customer
Acquisition
Modernize
Deploying a new technology ecosystem to deliver affordable, simple, and connected experiences and
Technology
products at a lower cost. This effort will also lead to the retirement of legacy systems
Ecosystem
Drive
Enhancing and expanding organizational capabilities by increasing digital expertise, process redesign,
Organizational
decision clarity and employee empowerment, agility and diversity
Transformation
128 2022 Annual Report
129 www.allstate.comBusiness Segment Information Segment Information Business
Allstate Protection Segment
Our Shared Purpose Our Allstate Protection segment accounted for 92.0% of Allstate’s 2022 consolidated insurance premiums and
contract charges and 20.4% of Allstate’s December 31, 2022 PIF. Private passenger auto, homeowners, other personal
As the good hands... our values our operating standards our behaviors
lines and commercial insurance products offered through both exclusive and independent agents and directly through
• We empower customers • Integrity is non-negotiable. • Focus on Customers by • Collaborate early and
contact centers and online are included in this segment. Our strategy is to offer products that allow customers to
with protection to help anticipating and exceeding often to develop and
them achieve their hopes • Inclusive Diversity & service expectations at low implement comprehensive interact with us when, where and how they want with affordable, simple and connected protection products.
and dreams. Equity values and costs. solutions and share
leverages unique identities learnings. Strategy Allstate Protection’s strategy is to increase personal lines market share through Transformative Growth
• We provide affordable, with equitable opportunity • Be the Best at protecting focusing on:
simple and connected and rewards. customers, developing • Challenge Ideas to
• Improving customer value by making it easier to do business with us, improving price competitiveness and
protection solutions. talent and running our leverage collective
• Collective Success is businesses. expertise, evaluate multiple providing competitive differentiated products and experiences
• We create opportunity achieved through empathy alternatives and create the • Expanding customer access to Allstate and National General products and services through the methods of
for our team, economic and prioritizing enterprise • Be Bold with original ideas best path forward.
value for our shareholders outcomes ahead of using speed and interaction customers want
and improve communities. individuals. conviction to beat the • Provide Clarity for
• Increasing sophistication and investment in customer acquisition
competition. expected outcomes,
decision authority and • Modernizing our technology to enhance the customer experience and product management ecosystems
• Earn Attractive Returns accountability.
by providing customer • Driving organizational transformation
value, proactively • Provide Feedback that is
We have three market-facing property-liability businesses, Allstate brand, National General and Answer Financial
accepting risk and using candid, actionable,
analytics. independent of hierarchy with products and services that cater to different customer preferences for advice and brand recognition.
and safe.
Reportable segments
Includes the Allstate brand, National General and Answer Financial. Offers private passenger auto,
homeowners, other personal lines and commercial insurance through agents, contact centers and
Allstate Protection (1)
online. The Encompass brand was combined into National General beginning in the first quarter of
2021 and results prior to 2021 reflect Encompass brand results only.
Includes Allstate Protection Plans, Allstate Dealer Services, Allstate Roadside, Arity and Allstate
Protection Services Identity Protection, which offer a broad range of solutions and services that expand and enhance our
customer value propositions.
Offers voluntary benefits and individual life and health products, including life, accident, critical illness,
Allstate Health and short-term disability and other health insurance products sold through independent agents, benefits
Benefits brokers and Allstate exclusive agents. Also provides stop-loss and fully insured group health products
to employers and short-term medical and medicare supplement insurance to individuals. We serve our consumers using differentiated products, analytical expertise, telematics and an integrated digital
Run-off Property- Relates to property and casualty insurance policies written during the 1960s through the mid-1980s enterprise that leverages data and technology to execute processes with a focus on greater effectiveness and
Liability (1) with exposure to asbestos, environmental and other claims in run-off. efficiency.
Corporate and Other Includes holding company activities and certain non-insurance operations.
Transformative Growth
(1) Allstate Protection and Run-off Property-Liability segments comprise Property-Liability. Improving the competitive prices of products through lower costs, increased price sophistication and
telematics
Improve Customer
Increasing engagement with the Allstate Mobile app and new business penetration of telematics
Value
products, including pay-per-mile insurance
Providing additional consumer-focused protection solutions
Transforming our Allstate agent sales system to enable more growth at a lower cost by incenting
agents to focus on sales, while expanding our distribution capacity through new agent models
Expand Customer Increasing direct channel distribution through improved online experience and data-driven insights to
Access enhance call center sales
Growing National General by leveraging the Allstate brand capabilities and data to expand product
offerings and fully utilize our independent agency relationships
Increase
Sophistication and
Improving the effectiveness of customer acquisition by expanding lead management, building data
Investment in
capabilities and utilizing household insights
Customer
Acquisition
Modernize
Deploying a new technology ecosystem to deliver affordable, simple, and connected experiences and
Technology
products at a lower cost. This effort will also lead to the retirement of legacy systems
Ecosystem
Drive
Enhancing and expanding organizational capabilities by increasing digital expertise, process redesign,
Organizational
decision clarity and employee empowerment, agility and diversity
Transformation
128 2022 Annual Report
129 www.allstate.comBusiness Segment Information Segment Information Business
Additional Information and Strategy Updates network companies will no longer be offered unless the comparison shopping and related services for
contracts utilize telematics-based pricing. businesses, offering customers choice, convenience
Allstate Protection pricing and risk management The use of different assumptions and updates to
and ease of use.
strategies Our pricing and underwriting strategies and industry models and to our risk transfer program could Answer Financial strategy Answer Financial is an
decisions are designed to generate sustainable materially change the projected loss. Growth strategies insurance agency that sells other insurance companies’
profitable growth. include areas where we believe diversification can be products directly to customers online. Our strategy as
enhanced and an appropriate return can be earned for a technology-enabled insurance agency is to provide
A proprietary database of underwriting and loss
the risk. As a result, our modeled exposure may
experience enables sophisticated pricing algorithms Products and distribution
increase. In addition, we have exposure to other severe
and methodologies to more accurately price risks while
weather events, which impact catastrophe losses. Allstate Protection differentiates itself by offering a comprehensive range of affordable, simple and connected
also seeking to attract and retain customers in multiple
protection solutions across distribution channels for specific consumer segments.
risk segments. We are promoting measures to prevent and
mitigate losses that are increasing due to climate Protection Products
• For auto insurance, risk evaluation factors can
change and increased severe weather including
include, but are not limited to: vehicle make, model
making homes and communities more resilient, Auto
and year; driver age and marital status; territory;
enforcement of stronger building codes, adoption of
years licensed; loss history; years insured with
sensible land use policies and expanded disaster
prior carrier; prior liability limits; prior lapse in
response capabilities. Homeowners
coverage; and insurance scoring utilizing
telematics data and other consumer information. Independent agent strategy The acquisition of
• For property insurance, risk evaluation factors can National General significantly enhanced our strategic I p n r s o u d r u a c n t c s e ( 1) Specialty auto (motorcycle, trailer, motor home and off-road vehicle)
position in the independent agency channel. The
include, but are not limited to: the amount of
transaction increased our total personal property-
insurance purchased; geographic location of the Other personal lines (renters, condominium, landlord, boat, umbrella, manufactured home and
liability market share by over one percentage point and
property; loss history; age, condition and stand-alone scheduled personal property)
has enhanced our independent agent-facing
construction characteristics of the property; and
technology. It also expanded our distribution footprint,
characteristics of the insured including insurance and led us to be a top five personal lines carrier in the Commercial lines
scoring utilizing other consumer information.
independent agency distribution channel.
A combination of underwriting information, pricing Answer Comparison quotes and sales of non-proprietary auto, homeowners and other personal lines
National General provides personal and
and discounts are also used to achieve a more Financial (condominium, renters, motorcycle, recreational vehicle and boat)
commercial automobile, homeowners, umbrella,
competitive position and growth. The pricing strategy
recreational vehicle, motorcycle, lender-placed auto
involves local marketplace pricing and underwriting (1) Insurance products are primarily offered by the Allstate and National General brands.
and property and other niche insurance products. Auto
decisions based on risk evaluation factors to the extent
insurance represents approximately 70% of premium Distribution
permissible by applicable law and an evaluation of
with a significant presence in the non-standard auto
competitors. In the U.S., we offer products through over 8,400 Allstate exclusive agents operating in
market. Allstate’s capabilities are being leveraged to approximately 8,500 locations, supported by 20,900 licensed sales professionals, and 700
Pricing of property products is intended to create additional auto and homeowners insurance Allstate brand exclusive financial specialists. We also offer products through approximately 8,700 independent
generate risk-adjusted returns that are acceptable products to better serve mid-market customers agents, contact centers, online and Market Sales Associates. In Canada, we offer Allstate brand
products through approximately 1,000 employee sales agents.
over a long-term period. Rate increases are pursued to through independent agents.
keep pace with loss trends, including losses from National General (including Distributed through over 43,000 independent agent locations, approximately 540 retail stores,
As part of the acquisition, Allstate Independent Encompass) contact centers and online.
catastrophic events and those that are weather-
Agency and Encompass organizations are being
related (such as wind, hail, lightning and freeze not Answer Financial Comparison quotes and sales offered to customers online or through contact centers.
integrated into National General by:
meeting our criteria to be declared a catastrophe). We
also take into consideration potential customer • Migrating Encompass policyholders and business Allstate exclusive agents also support the Protection Services and Allstate Health and Benefits segments through
disruption, the impact on our ability to market our operations to National General and retiring the offering roadside assistance, consumer protection plans and voluntary benefits products. We also sell a range of non-
products, regulatory limitations, our competitive Encompass technology infrastructure proprietary life and annuity insurance products offered by third-party providers.
position and profitability.
• Transitioning Encompass and Allstate-branded Exclusive agent compensation structure The compensation structure for Allstate exclusive agents rewards them
In any reporting period, loss experience from Independent Agent new business to National for delivering high value to customers and achieving certain business outcomes such as profitable growth and
catastrophic events and weather-related losses may General as auto and homeowners insurance household penetration. Allstate exclusive agent remuneration comprises a base commission, variable compensation
contribute to negative or positive underwriting products roll out and a bonus.
performance relative to the expectations incorporated
Commercial lines strategy Traditional small • Agents receive a monthly base commission payment as a percentage of their total eligible written premium.
into product pricing.
business commercial insurance is being enhanced
• Variable compensation rewards agents for acquiring new customers by exceeding a base production goal.
Property catastrophe exposure is managed with through new product development using technology to
the goal of providing shareholders an acceptable improve customer experience and reduce costs while • Bonus compensation is based on a percentage of premiums and can be earned by agents who are meeting certain
return on the risks assumed in the property business. leveraging enterprise capabilities. Profit improvement sales goals and selling additional policies to meet customer needs profitably.
Catastrophe exposure management includes actions continue for our traditional commercial lines
We are aligning agent compensation to emphasize growth, improve customer service and lower costs. Agent
purchasing reinsurance to provide coverage for known insurance products, emphasizing pricing,
compensation in 2023 will increase the emphasis on bundling multiple lines of business when acquiring new customers.
exposure to hurricanes, earthquakes and fires following claims, governance and operational improvements. In
Additionally, new business written by exclusive agents in 2023 will renew at a lower base commission rate with variable
earthquakes, wildfires and other catastrophes. Our 2023, Allstate brand will exit traditional commercial
compensation available based on bundling.
current catastrophe reinsurance program supports our insurance in five states. These five states combined
risk tolerance framework which utilizes a modeled 1- made up 47% and 36% of 2022 Allstate brand When an Allstate product is not available, agents have the ability to earn commissions and additional bonuses on
in-100 annual aggregate limit for catastrophe losses commercial new issued applications and net written non-proprietary products provided to customers through Ivantage, a leading provider of property and casualty
from hurricanes, earthquakes and wildfires of $2.5 premium, respectively. Additionally, starting in the brokerage services, and arrangements with other companies, agencies, and brokers. As of December 31, 2022,
billion, net of reinsurance. fourth quarter of 2022, coverage to transportation Ivantage had $1.99 billion non-proprietary premiums under management, consisting of approximately $1.77 billion of
130 2022 Annual Report
131 www.allstate.comBusiness Segment Information Segment Information Business
Additional Information and Strategy Updates network companies will no longer be offered unless the comparison shopping and related services for
contracts utilize telematics-based pricing. businesses, offering customers choice, convenience
Allstate Protection pricing and risk management The use of different assumptions and updates to
and ease of use.
strategies Our pricing and underwriting strategies and industry models and to our risk transfer program could Answer Financial strategy Answer Financial is an
decisions are designed to generate sustainable materially change the projected loss. Growth strategies insurance agency that sells other insurance companies’
profitable growth. include areas where we believe diversification can be products directly to customers online. Our strategy as
enhanced and an appropriate return can be earned for a technology-enabled insurance agency is to provide
A proprietary database of underwriting and loss
the risk. As a result, our modeled exposure may
experience enables sophisticated pricing algorithms Products and distribution
increase. In addition, we have exposure to other severe
and methodologies to more accurately price risks while
weather events, which impact catastrophe losses. Allstate Protection differentiates itself by offering a comprehensive range of affordable, simple and connected
also seeking to attract and retain customers in multiple
protection solutions across distribution channels for specific consumer segments.
risk segments. We are promoting measures to prevent and
mitigate losses that are increasing due to climate Protection Products
• For auto insurance, risk evaluation factors can
change and increased severe weather including
include, but are not limited to: vehicle make, model
making homes and communities more resilient, Auto
and year; driver age and marital status; territory;
enforcement of stronger building codes, adoption of
years licensed; loss history; years insured with
sensible land use policies and expanded disaster
prior carrier; prior liability limits; prior lapse in
response capabilities. Homeowners
coverage; and insurance scoring utilizing
telematics data and other consumer information. Independent agent strategy The acquisition of
• For property insurance, risk evaluation factors can National General significantly enhanced our strategic I p n r s o u d r u a c n t c s e ( 1) Specialty auto (motorcycle, trailer, motor home and off-road vehicle)
position in the independent agency channel. The
include, but are not limited to: the amount of
transaction increased our total personal property-
insurance purchased; geographic location of the Other personal lines (renters, condominium, landlord, boat, umbrella, manufactured home and
liability market share by over one percentage point and
property; loss history; age, condition and stand-alone scheduled personal property)
has enhanced our independent agent-facing
construction characteristics of the property; and
technology. It also expanded our distribution footprint,
characteristics of the insured including insurance and led us to be a top five personal lines carrier in the Commercial lines
scoring utilizing other consumer information.
independent agency distribution channel.
A combination of underwriting information, pricing Answer Comparison quotes and sales of non-proprietary auto, homeowners and other personal lines
National General provides personal and
and discounts are also used to achieve a more Financial (condominium, renters, motorcycle, recreational vehicle and boat)
commercial automobile, homeowners, umbrella,
competitive position and growth. The pricing strategy
recreational vehicle, motorcycle, lender-placed auto
involves local marketplace pricing and underwriting (1) Insurance products are primarily offered by the Allstate and National General brands.
and property and other niche insurance products. Auto
decisions based on risk evaluation factors to the extent
insurance represents approximately 70% of premium Distribution
permissible by applicable law and an evaluation of
with a significant presence in the non-standard auto
competitors. In the U.S., we offer products through over 8,400 Allstate exclusive agents operating in
market. Allstate’s capabilities are being leveraged to approximately 8,500 locations, supported by 20,900 licensed sales professionals, and 700
Pricing of property products is intended to create additional auto and homeowners insurance Allstate brand exclusive financial specialists. We also offer products through approximately 8,700 independent
generate risk-adjusted returns that are acceptable products to better serve mid-market customers agents, contact centers, online and Market Sales Associates. In Canada, we offer Allstate brand
products through approximately 1,000 employee sales agents.
over a long-term period. Rate increases are pursued to through independent agents.
keep pace with loss trends, including losses from National General (including Distributed through over 43,000 independent agent locations, approximately 540 retail stores,
As part of the acquisition, Allstate Independent Encompass) contact centers and online.
catastrophic events and those that are weather-
Agency and Encompass organizations are being
related (such as wind, hail, lightning and freeze not Answer Financial Comparison quotes and sales offered to customers online or through contact centers.
integrated into National General by:
meeting our criteria to be declared a catastrophe). We
also take into consideration potential customer • Migrating Encompass policyholders and business Allstate exclusive agents also support the Protection Services and Allstate Health and Benefits segments through
disruption, the impact on our ability to market our operations to National General and retiring the offering roadside assistance, consumer protection plans and voluntary benefits products. We also sell a range of non-
products, regulatory limitations, our competitive Encompass technology infrastructure proprietary life and annuity insurance products offered by third-party providers.
position and profitability.
• Transitioning Encompass and Allstate-branded Exclusive agent compensation structure The compensation structure for Allstate exclusive agents rewards them
In any reporting period, loss experience from Independent Agent new business to National for delivering high value to customers and achieving certain business outcomes such as profitable growth and
catastrophic events and weather-related losses may General as auto and homeowners insurance household penetration. Allstate exclusive agent remuneration comprises a base commission, variable compensation
contribute to negative or positive underwriting products roll out and a bonus.
performance relative to the expectations incorporated
Commercial lines strategy Traditional small • Agents receive a monthly base commission payment as a percentage of their total eligible written premium.
into product pricing.
business commercial insurance is being enhanced
• Variable compensation rewards agents for acquiring new customers by exceeding a base production goal.
Property catastrophe exposure is managed with through new product development using technology to
the goal of providing shareholders an acceptable improve customer experience and reduce costs while • Bonus compensation is based on a percentage of premiums and can be earned by agents who are meeting certain
return on the risks assumed in the property business. leveraging enterprise capabilities. Profit improvement sales goals and selling additional policies to meet customer needs profitably.
Catastrophe exposure management includes actions continue for our traditional commercial lines
We are aligning agent compensation to emphasize growth, improve customer service and lower costs. Agent
purchasing reinsurance to provide coverage for known insurance products, emphasizing pricing,
compensation in 2023 will increase the emphasis on bundling multiple lines of business when acquiring new customers.
exposure to hurricanes, earthquakes and fires following claims, governance and operational improvements. In
Additionally, new business written by exclusive agents in 2023 will renew at a lower base commission rate with variable
earthquakes, wildfires and other catastrophes. Our 2023, Allstate brand will exit traditional commercial
compensation available based on bundling.
current catastrophe reinsurance program supports our insurance in five states. These five states combined
risk tolerance framework which utilizes a modeled 1- made up 47% and 36% of 2022 Allstate brand When an Allstate product is not available, agents have the ability to earn commissions and additional bonuses on
in-100 annual aggregate limit for catastrophe losses commercial new issued applications and net written non-proprietary products provided to customers through Ivantage, a leading provider of property and casualty
from hurricanes, earthquakes and wildfires of $2.5 premium, respectively. Additionally, starting in the brokerage services, and arrangements with other companies, agencies, and brokers. As of December 31, 2022,
billion, net of reinsurance. fourth quarter of 2022, coverage to transportation Ivantage had $1.99 billion non-proprietary premiums under management, consisting of approximately $1.77 billion of
130 2022 Annual Report
131 www.allstate.comBusiness Segment Information Segment Information Business
personal insurance premiums primarily related to property business in hurricane exposed areas, and approximately Competition
$222 million of commercial insurance premiums.
The personal lines insurance markets, including private passenger auto and homeowners insurance, are highly
Additionally, we offer a homeowners product through our excess and surplus lines carrier, North Light Specialty competitive. The following charts provide Allstate Protection’s combined market share compared to our principal U.S.
Insurance Company, in certain areas with higher risk of catastrophes or where customers do not meet the Allstate competitors using statutory direct written premium for the year ended December 31, 2021, according to A.M. Best.
brand standard underwriting profile.
Allstate agents and exclusive financial specialists receive commissions for non-proprietary life and retirement sales Personal lines insurance Private passenger auto insurance
and are eligible for a quarterly bonus based on the volume of non-proprietary sales.
Independent agent remuneration for National General comprises a base commission and a bonus that can be Allstate 9.8% Allstate 10.4%
earned by agents who achieve sales goals and a target loss ratio.
State Farm 16.6%
State Farm 16.0%
Innovative product offerings and features Other 39.6%
Market-leading solutions Progressive 9.9%
Other 47.9%
Qualified customers choose from a variety of options, such as Accident GEICO 9.7% GEICO 14.3%
Your Choice Auto® Forgiveness, Deductible Rewards®, Safe Driving Bonus® and New Car
Replacement. USAA 6.1% USAA 6.0% Progressive 13.7%
Featured options include Claim RateGuard®, Claim-Free Bonus, Deductible
Allstate House and Rewards® and flexibility in options and coverages, including graduated roof
Home® coverage and pricing based on roof type and age for damage related to wind and Homeowners insurance
hail events.
Allstate brand
Auto customers with a qualifying property policy are provided an auto renewal
guarantee and a deductible waiver (when the same event, with the same covered Allstate 8.5%
Bundling Benefits
cause of loss, damages both auto and property). Offered in 47 states and District of
Columbia (“D.C.”) as of December 31, 2022. State Farm 18.0%
Auto Car Replaces a qualifying customer’s vehicle involved in a total loss accident with a
Replacement newer vehicle with fewer miles. Offered in 46 states and D.C. as of December 31, Other 54.1% Liberty Mutual 6.9%
Protection 2022.
USAA 6.4%
Endorsements and coverage amounts can be scaled up or down to create a
National General Custom360SM Farmers 6.1%
custom, needs-based insurance solution for customers at all stages in life.
Telematics solutions
Geographic markets
Telematics-based program, available in 49 states and D.C. as of December 31,
2022, that uses a mobile application or an in-car device to capture driving behaviors We primarily operate in the U.S. (all 50 states and D.C.) and Canada. Our top geographic markets based on 2022
Drivewise® and encourage safe driving. It provides customers with information, tools and statutory direct premiums are reflected below.
incentives. For example, in most states, Allstate Rewards® provides reward points
Allstate brand for safe driving. Top geographic markets
Usage-based insurance product, available in 22 states as of December 31, 2022,
Milewise® that gives customers flexibility to customize their insurance and pay based on the
number of miles they drive.
Mobile-based telematics application, available in 39 states as of December 31, Texas 11.3%
National General DynamicDriveSM
2022, used to capture driving behaviors and reward customer participation.
California 10.2%
New York 7.9%
Other 63.4%
Florida 7.2%
132 2022 Annual Report
133 www.allstate.comBusiness Segment Information Segment Information Business
personal insurance premiums primarily related to property business in hurricane exposed areas, and approximately Competition
$222 million of commercial insurance premiums.
The personal lines insurance markets, including private passenger auto and homeowners insurance, are highly
Additionally, we offer a homeowners product through our excess and surplus lines carrier, North Light Specialty competitive. The following charts provide Allstate Protection’s combined market share compared to our principal U.S.
Insurance Company, in certain areas with higher risk of catastrophes or where customers do not meet the Allstate competitors using statutory direct written premium for the year ended December 31, 2021, according to A.M. Best.
brand standard underwriting profile.
Allstate agents and exclusive financial specialists receive commissions for non-proprietary life and retirement sales Personal lines insurance Private passenger auto insurance
and are eligible for a quarterly bonus based on the volume of non-proprietary sales.
Independent agent remuneration for National General comprises a base commission and a bonus that can be Allstate 9.8% Allstate 10.4%
earned by agents who achieve sales goals and a target loss ratio.
State Farm 16.6%
State Farm 16.0%
Innovative product offerings and features Other 39.6%
Market-leading solutions Progressive 9.9%
Other 47.9%
Qualified customers choose from a variety of options, such as Accident GEICO 9.7% GEICO 14.3%
Your Choice Auto® Forgiveness, Deductible Rewards®, Safe Driving Bonus® and New Car
Replacement. USAA 6.1% USAA 6.0% Progressive 13.7%
Featured options include Claim RateGuard®, Claim-Free Bonus, Deductible
Allstate House and Rewards® and flexibility in options and coverages, including graduated roof
Home® coverage and pricing based on roof type and age for damage related to wind and Homeowners insurance
hail events.
Allstate brand
Auto customers with a qualifying property policy are provided an auto renewal
guarantee and a deductible waiver (when the same event, with the same covered Allstate 8.5%
Bundling Benefits
cause of loss, damages both auto and property). Offered in 47 states and District of
Columbia (“D.C.”) as of December 31, 2022. State Farm 18.0%
Auto Car Replaces a qualifying customer’s vehicle involved in a total loss accident with a
Replacement newer vehicle with fewer miles. Offered in 46 states and D.C. as of December 31, Other 54.1% Liberty Mutual 6.9%
Protection 2022.
USAA 6.4%
Endorsements and coverage amounts can be scaled up or down to create a
National General Custom360SM Farmers 6.1%
custom, needs-based insurance solution for customers at all stages in life.
Telematics solutions
Geographic markets
Telematics-based program, available in 49 states and D.C. as of December 31,
2022, that uses a mobile application or an in-car device to capture driving behaviors We primarily operate in the U.S. (all 50 states and D.C.) and Canada. Our top geographic markets based on 2022
Drivewise® and encourage safe driving. It provides customers with information, tools and statutory direct premiums are reflected below.
incentives. For example, in most states, Allstate Rewards® provides reward points
Allstate brand for safe driving. Top geographic markets
Usage-based insurance product, available in 22 states as of December 31, 2022,
Milewise® that gives customers flexibility to customize their insurance and pay based on the
number of miles they drive.
Mobile-based telematics application, available in 39 states as of December 31, Texas 11.3%
National General DynamicDriveSM
2022, used to capture driving behaviors and reward customer participation.
California 10.2%
New York 7.9%
Other 63.4%
Florida 7.2%
132 2022 Annual Report
133 www.allstate.comBusiness Segment Information Segment Information Business
Protection Services Segment Allstate Health and Benefits Segment
Our Protection Services segment accounted for 4.8% of Allstate’s 2022 consolidated total revenue and 77.3% of Strategy Competition
Allstate’s December 31, 2022 PIF. Protection Services includes AllstateSM Protection Plans, Allstate Dealer Services®,
Allstate Roadside, Arity® and AllstateSM Identity Protection, which offer a broad range of products and services that Allstate Health and Benefits segment accounted We compete on a wide variety of factors, including
for 4.4% of Allstate’s 2022 consolidated total revenue product offerings, brand recognition, financial strength
expand and enhance customer value propositions.
and 2.3% of Allstate’s December 31, 2022 PIF. The and ratings, price, distribution and customer service.
Strategy - Protection Services’ strategy is to expand distribution and provide affordable solutions that increase Allstate Health and Benefits segment provides
The market for voluntary benefits is growing as
customer value and create effortless interactions. consumers with financial protection against the risk of
these products help employees fill the increasing gaps
accidents, illness and mortality. We are among the
Allstate Expand distribution and product breadth of consumer protection plans through new and existing retailers industry leaders in the growing and highly competitive associated with continued medical cost inflation and
Protection Plans and mobile operators across North America, Europe and Asia. the shifting of costs from employers to employees to
voluntary benefits market, offering a broad range of
cover co-pays and deductibles. Favorable industry and
Allstate Dealer Expand distribution of Allstate branded finance and insurance products through auto dealerships and accident, health and life products through workplace
economic trends have increased competitive pressure
Services direct to customers. enrollment. Our life insurance portfolio includes
and attracted new traditional and non-traditional
Modernize the roadside assistance business through technology and enhance capabilities to deliver a individual and group permanent life solutions. We also
Allstate Roadside entrants to the voluntary benefits market. Recent
superior customer experience. provide stop-loss and fully insured group health
entrants, including large group medical, life and
products to employers and short-term medical and
A leading telematics and mobility insights provider to insurance companies, the transportation industry disability insurance carriers, are leveraging core benefit
and location-enabled consumer apps. Services include: telematics-enabled mobility insights for medicare supplement insurance to individuals. Target
capabilities by bundling and discounting to capture
Arity consumers and businesses, driving behavior data and scores (Arity IQ) to deliver personalized insurance customers are middle market consumers with family
voluntary market share. We also compete with large
pricing, and marketing services including lead generation and advertising technology integrations to and financial protection needs. Allstate Health and
optimize advertising investments. Benefits is well represented in all market segments and group medical carriers in our stop-loss, fully insured
group health insurance, short-term medical and
Create a leading position in the identity protection market, offering full-service identity protection including is a leader in the large and mega (over 10,000
medicare supplement insurance offerings.
Allstate Identity identity monitoring, digital exposure reporting, and identity theft remediation and reimbursement. employees) market segments.
Protection Expanding our product breadth into consumer cybersecurity, privacy and family digital safety protection
Geographic markets
as well as expanding partnership and direct to consumer distribution channels. Allstate Health and Benefits is differentiated
through its broad product portfolio, flexible enrollment We primarily operate in the U.S. (all 50 states and
Products and distribution solutions, strong national accounts team and well- D.C.) and Canada. The top geographic markets based
recognized brand. on 2022 statutory direct premiums are reflected below.
Products and services
Our strategy for growth is to deliver substantially
Provides consumer protection plans and related technical support for mobile phones, consumer Top geographic markets
Allstate more value through innovative products and
electronics, furniture and appliances which provide customers protection from mechanical or electrical
Protection Plans failure, and in certain cases, accidental damage. technology, tailored solutions and exceptional service
through investments in future-state technologies and
Allstate Dealer Offers finance and insurance products, including vehicle service contracts, guaranteed asset protection
data and analytics capabilities. Florida 11.4%
Services waivers, road hazard tire and wheel protection, and paint and fabric protection.
Offers towing, jump-start, lockout, fuel delivery and tire change services to retail customers and customers Products and distribution Texas 10.4%
Allstate Roadside
of our wholesale partners.
Georgia 5.2%
Health and benefits products
Provides insights and services created from data collected, normalized and analyzed by the Arity platform,
Arity including automotive telematics information. Product suite includes on-demand risk scoring, lead Employer voluntary benefits Ohio 5.2%
generation, digital advertising, data integration, traditional telematics, and data-as-a-service solutions. Group health
Allstate Identity Individual health Other 67.8%
Provides identity, consumer cybersecurity, privacy and family digital safety protection.
Protection
Distribution channels
Distribution channels Over 8,000 independent agents and benefits brokers and
Allstate Allstate exclusive agents, focusing on workplace benefits
Protection Plans Retailers and mobile operators, in-store or online, in North America, Europe and Asia Pacific. on small employers for employer voluntary benefits and
group health
Allstate Dealer Independent agents selling through auto dealerships in the U.S. in conjunction with the purchase of a new
Services or used vehicle and direct to consumer. Over 33,000 independent agents, in-house agencies,
direct-to-consumer marketing, wholesaling, worksite
Allstate Roadside Allstate exclusive agents, wholesale partners, affinity groups and on-demand mobile application service. marketing and the internet for individual health
Arity Sells directly to affiliate and non-affiliate customers and through strategic partners.
Allstate Identity Primarily through workplace benefit programs with growth in partnerships and direct to consumer
Protection delivered through enterprise partnerships, online and mobile application sales.
Geographic markets
Protection Services primarily operates in the U.S. and Canada, with Allstate Protection Plans also offering services
in Europe, Australia and Asia.
Competition
We compete on a variety of factors, including product offerings, brand recognition, financial strength, price and
customer experience. The market for these services is highly competitive.
134 2022 Annual Report
135 www.allstate.comBusiness Segment Information Segment Information Business
Protection Services Segment Allstate Health and Benefits Segment
Our Protection Services segment accounted for 4.8% of Allstate’s 2022 consolidated total revenue and 77.3% of Strategy Competition
Allstate’s December 31, 2022 PIF. Protection Services includes AllstateSM Protection Plans, Allstate Dealer Services®,
Allstate Roadside, Arity® and AllstateSM Identity Protection, which offer a broad range of products and services that Allstate Health and Benefits segment accounted We compete on a wide variety of factors, including
for 4.4% of Allstate’s 2022 consolidated total revenue product offerings, brand recognition, financial strength
expand and enhance customer value propositions.
and 2.3% of Allstate’s December 31, 2022 PIF. The and ratings, price, distribution and customer service.
Strategy - Protection Services’ strategy is to expand distribution and provide affordable solutions that increase Allstate Health and Benefits segment provides
The market for voluntary benefits is growing as
customer value and create effortless interactions. consumers with financial protection against the risk of
these products help employees fill the increasing gaps
accidents, illness and mortality. We are among the
Allstate Expand distribution and product breadth of consumer protection plans through new and existing retailers industry leaders in the growing and highly competitive associated with continued medical cost inflation and
Protection Plans and mobile operators across North America, Europe and Asia. the shifting of costs from employers to employees to
voluntary benefits market, offering a broad range of
cover co-pays and deductibles. Favorable industry and
Allstate Dealer Expand distribution of Allstate branded finance and insurance products through auto dealerships and accident, health and life products through workplace
economic trends have increased competitive pressure
Services direct to customers. enrollment. Our life insurance portfolio includes
and attracted new traditional and non-traditional
Modernize the roadside assistance business through technology and enhance capabilities to deliver a individual and group permanent life solutions. We also
Allstate Roadside entrants to the voluntary benefits market. Recent
superior customer experience. provide stop-loss and fully insured group health
entrants, including large group medical, life and
products to employers and short-term medical and
A leading telematics and mobility insights provider to insurance companies, the transportation industry disability insurance carriers, are leveraging core benefit
and location-enabled consumer apps. Services include: telematics-enabled mobility insights for medicare supplement insurance to individuals. Target
capabilities by bundling and discounting to capture
Arity consumers and businesses, driving behavior data and scores (Arity IQ) to deliver personalized insurance customers are middle market consumers with family
voluntary market share. We also compete with large
pricing, and marketing services including lead generation and advertising technology integrations to and financial protection needs. Allstate Health and
optimize advertising investments. Benefits is well represented in all market segments and group medical carriers in our stop-loss, fully insured
group health insurance, short-term medical and
Create a leading position in the identity protection market, offering full-service identity protection including is a leader in the large and mega (over 10,000
medicare supplement insurance offerings.
Allstate Identity identity monitoring, digital exposure reporting, and identity theft remediation and reimbursement. employees) market segments.
Protection Expanding our product breadth into consumer cybersecurity, privacy and family digital safety protection
Geographic markets
as well as expanding partnership and direct to consumer distribution channels. Allstate Health and Benefits is differentiated
through its broad product portfolio, flexible enrollment We primarily operate in the U.S. (all 50 states and
Products and distribution solutions, strong national accounts team and well- D.C.) and Canada. The top geographic markets based
recognized brand. on 2022 statutory direct premiums are reflected below.
Products and services
Our strategy for growth is to deliver substantially
Provides consumer protection plans and related technical support for mobile phones, consumer Top geographic markets
Allstate more value through innovative products and
electronics, furniture and appliances which provide customers protection from mechanical or electrical
Protection Plans failure, and in certain cases, accidental damage. technology, tailored solutions and exceptional service
through investments in future-state technologies and
Allstate Dealer Offers finance and insurance products, including vehicle service contracts, guaranteed asset protection
data and analytics capabilities. Florida 11.4%
Services waivers, road hazard tire and wheel protection, and paint and fabric protection.
Offers towing, jump-start, lockout, fuel delivery and tire change services to retail customers and customers Products and distribution Texas 10.4%
Allstate Roadside
of our wholesale partners.
Georgia 5.2%
Health and benefits products
Provides insights and services created from data collected, normalized and analyzed by the Arity platform,
Arity including automotive telematics information. Product suite includes on-demand risk scoring, lead Employer voluntary benefits Ohio 5.2%
generation, digital advertising, data integration, traditional telematics, and data-as-a-service solutions. Group health
Allstate Identity Individual health Other 67.8%
Provides identity, consumer cybersecurity, privacy and family digital safety protection.
Protection
Distribution channels
Distribution channels Over 8,000 independent agents and benefits brokers and
Allstate Allstate exclusive agents, focusing on workplace benefits
Protection Plans Retailers and mobile operators, in-store or online, in North America, Europe and Asia Pacific. on small employers for employer voluntary benefits and
group health
Allstate Dealer Independent agents selling through auto dealerships in the U.S. in conjunction with the purchase of a new
Services or used vehicle and direct to consumer. Over 33,000 independent agents, in-house agencies,
direct-to-consumer marketing, wholesaling, worksite
Allstate Roadside Allstate exclusive agents, wholesale partners, affinity groups and on-demand mobile application service. marketing and the internet for individual health
Arity Sells directly to affiliate and non-affiliate customers and through strategic partners.
Allstate Identity Primarily through workplace benefit programs with growth in partnerships and direct to consumer
Protection delivered through enterprise partnerships, online and mobile application sales.
Geographic markets
Protection Services primarily operates in the U.S. and Canada, with Allstate Protection Plans also offering services
in Europe, Australia and Asia.
Competition
We compete on a variety of factors, including product offerings, brand recognition, financial strength, price and
customer experience. The market for these services is highly competitive.
134 2022 Annual Report
135 www.allstate.comBusiness Segment Information Forward-Looking Statements
Forward-Looking Statements
Other Business Segments
This report contains “forward-looking statements” that anticipate results based on our estimates, assumptions and
Run-off Property-Liability Segment plans that are subject to uncertainty. These statements are made subject to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts
The Run-off Property-Liability segment includes results from property and casualty insurance coverage that
and may be identified by their use of words like “plans,” “seeks,” “expects,” “will,” “should,” “anticipates,” “estimates,”
primarily relates to policies written during the 1960s through the mid-1980s.
“intends,” “believes,” “likely,” “targets” and other words with similar meanings. These statements may address, among
Strategy Management of this segment has been assigned to a designated group of professionals with expertise other things, our strategy for growth, catastrophe exposure management, product development, investment results,
in claims handling, policy coverage interpretation, exposure identification, litigation and reinsurance collection. As part regulatory approvals, market position, expenses, financial results, litigation and reserves. We believe that these
of its responsibilities, this group may pursue settlement agreements including policy buybacks on direct excess statements are based on reasonable estimates, assumptions and plans. Forward-looking statements speak only as of
commercial business when appropriate to improve the certainty of the liabilities. At the end of 2022, 64% of the direct the date on which they are made, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result
excess gross case reserves were attributable to settlement agreements. This group also manages other direct of new information or future events or developments. In addition, forward-looking statements are subject to certain
commercial and assumed reinsurance business in runoff and engages in reinsurance ceded and assumed risks or uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those communicated in these forward-
commutations as required or when considered economically advantageous. looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by,
the forward-looking statements include risks related to:
Changes in the reserves established for asbestos, environmental and other run-off lines losses have occurred and
may continue. Reserve changes can be caused by new information relating to new and additional claims, new Insurance and Financial Services (1) unexpected increases in claim frequency and severity; (2) catastrophes and
exposures or the impact of resolving unsettled claims based on unanticipated events such as arbitrations, litigation, severe weather events; (3) limitations in analytical models used for loss cost estimates; (4) price competition and
legislative, judicial or regulatory actions. Environmental losses may also increase as the result of additional funding for changes in regulation and underwriting standards; (5) actual claim costs exceeding current reserves; (6) market risk,
environmental site clean-up. inflation, and declines in credit quality of our investment portfolios; (7) our subjective determination of fair value and
amount of credit losses for investments; (8) our participation in indemnification programs, including state industry
Challenges related to the concentration of insurance and reinsurance claims from companies who specialize in this
pools and facilities; (9) inability to mitigate the impact associated with changes in capital requirements; (10) a
business continue to be addressed.
downgrade in financial strength ratings;
Corporate and Other Segment
Business, Strategy and Operations (11) competition in the industries in which we compete and new or changing
Our Corporate and Other segment is comprised of holding company activities and certain non-insurance technologies; (12) implementation of our Transformative Growth strategy; (13) our catastrophe management strategy;
operations, including expenses associated with strategic initiatives. (14) restrictions on our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends; (15) restrictions under terms of certain of our securities on
our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our stock; (16) the availability of reinsurance at current levels and prices; (17)
counterparty risk related to reinsurance; (18) acquisitions and divestitures of businesses; (19) intellectual property
infringement, misappropriation and third-party claims;
Macro, Regulatory and Risk Environment (20) conditions in the global economy and capital markets; (21) a large-scale
pandemic, the occurrence of terrorism, military actions or social unrest; (22) the failure in cyber or other information
security controls, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery processes and business
continuity planning; (23) changing climate and weather conditions; (24) evolving environmental, social and governance
standards and expectations; (25) restrictive regulations and regulatory reforms, including limitations on rate increases
and requirements to underwrite business and participate in loss sharing arrangements; (26) losses from legal and
regulatory actions; (27) changes in or the application of accounting standards; (28) vendor-related business disruptions
or failure of a vendor to provide and protect data, confidential and proprietary information, or personal information of
our customers, claimants or employees; (29) our ability to attract, develop and retain talent; and (30) misconduct or
fraudulent acts by employees, agents and third parties.
Additional information concerning these and other factors may be found in our filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, including the “Risk Factors” section in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K.
136 2022 Annual Report
137 www.allstate.comBusiness Segment Information Forward-Looking Statements
Forward-Looking Statements
Other Business Segments
This report contains “forward-looking statements” that anticipate results based on our estimates, assumptions and
Run-off Property-Liability Segment plans that are subject to uncertainty. These statements are made subject to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts
The Run-off Property-Liability segment includes results from property and casualty insurance coverage that
and may be identified by their use of words like “plans,” “seeks,” “expects,” “will,” “should,” “anticipates,” “estimates,”
primarily relates to policies written during the 1960s through the mid-1980s.
“intends,” “believes,” “likely,” “targets” and other words with similar meanings. These statements may address, among
Strategy Management of this segment has been assigned to a designated group of professionals with expertise other things, our strategy for growth, catastrophe exposure management, product development, investment results,
in claims handling, policy coverage interpretation, exposure identification, litigation and reinsurance collection. As part regulatory approvals, market position, expenses, financial results, litigation and reserves. We believe that these
of its responsibilities, this group may pursue settlement agreements including policy buybacks on direct excess statements are based on reasonable estimates, assumptions and plans. Forward-looking statements speak only as of
commercial business when appropriate to improve the certainty of the liabilities. At the end of 2022, 64% of the direct the date on which they are made, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result
excess gross case reserves were attributable to settlement agreements. This group also manages other direct of new information or future events or developments. In addition, forward-looking statements are subject to certain
commercial and assumed reinsurance business in runoff and engages in reinsurance ceded and assumed risks or uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those communicated in these forward-
commutations as required or when considered economically advantageous. looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by,
the forward-looking statements include risks related to:
Changes in the reserves established for asbestos, environmental and other run-off lines losses have occurred and
may continue. Reserve changes can be caused by new information relating to new and additional claims, new Insurance and Financial Services (1) unexpected increases in claim frequency and severity; (2) catastrophes and
exposures or the impact of resolving unsettled claims based on unanticipated events such as arbitrations, litigation, severe weather events; (3) limitations in analytical models used for loss cost estimates; (4) price competition and
legislative, judicial or regulatory actions. Environmental losses may also increase as the result of additional funding for changes in regulation and underwriting standards; (5) actual claim costs exceeding current reserves; (6) market risk,
environmental site clean-up. inflation, and declines in credit quality of our investment portfolios; (7) our subjective determination of fair value and
amount of credit losses for investments; (8) our participation in indemnification programs, including state industry
Challenges related to the concentration of insurance and reinsurance claims from companies who specialize in this
pools and facilities; (9) inability to mitigate the impact associated with changes in capital requirements; (10) a
business continue to be addressed.
downgrade in financial strength ratings;
Corporate and Other Segment
Business, Strategy and Operations (11) competition in the industries in which we compete and new or changing
Our Corporate and Other segment is comprised of holding company activities and certain non-insurance technologies; (12) implementation of our Transformative Growth strategy; (13) our catastrophe management strategy;
operations, including expenses associated with strategic initiatives. (14) restrictions on our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends; (15) restrictions under terms of certain of our securities on
our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our stock; (16) the availability of reinsurance at current levels and prices; (17)
counterparty risk related to reinsurance; (18) acquisitions and divestitures of businesses; (19) intellectual property
infringement, misappropriation and third-party claims;
Macro, Regulatory and Risk Environment (20) conditions in the global economy and capital markets; (21) a large-scale
pandemic, the occurrence of terrorism, military actions or social unrest; (22) the failure in cyber or other information
security controls, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery processes and business
continuity planning; (23) changing climate and weather conditions; (24) evolving environmental, social and governance
standards and expectations; (25) restrictive regulations and regulatory reforms, including limitations on rate increases
and requirements to underwrite business and participate in loss sharing arrangements; (26) losses from legal and
regulatory actions; (27) changes in or the application of accounting standards; (28) vendor-related business disruptions
or failure of a vendor to provide and protect data, confidential and proprietary information, or personal information of
our customers, claimants or employees; (29) our ability to attract, develop and retain talent; and (30) misconduct or
fraudulent acts by employees, agents and third parties.
Additional information concerning these and other factors may be found in our filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, including the “Risk Factors” section in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K.
136 2022 Annual Report
137 www.allstate.comCommon Stock Performance Graph 2022 Highlights
Common stock performance graph Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following performance graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on Allstate common stock for 2022 Highlights
a five-year period (December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2022) with the cumulative total return of the S&P Property and
Overview Measuring segment profit or loss
Casualty Insurance Index (S&P P/C) and the S&P 500 stock index.
The following discussion highlights significant The measure of segment profit or loss used in
factors influencing the consolidated financial position evaluating performance is underwriting income for the
Value at Each Year-End
and results of operations of The Allstate Corporation Allstate Protection and Run-off Property-Liability
of $100 Initial Investment Made on December 31, 2017
(referred to in this document as “we,” “our,” “us,” the segments and adjusted net income for the Protection
“Company” or “Allstate”). It should be read in Services, Allstate Health and Benefits, and Corporate
Allstate v. Published Indices conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and Other segments.
and related notes.
Underwriting income is calculated as premiums
$250
A discussion of strategy, including updates to the earned and other revenue, less claims and claims
$225 multi-year Transformative Growth initiative, can be expense (“losses”), Shelter-in-Place Payback expense,
found in Strategy and Segment Information. amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs
$200
(“DAC”), operating costs and expenses, amortization or
This section of this 2022 Annual Report generally
$175 impairment of purchased intangibles, and restructuring
discusses 2022 and 2021 results and year-to-year
and related charges, as determined using accounting
comparisons between 2022 and 2021. Discussions of
$150 principles generally accepted in the United States of
2020 results and year-to-year comparisons between
America (“GAAP”). We use this measure in our
$125 2021 and 2020 that are not included in this report can
evaluation of results of operations to analyze
be found in Management’s Discussion and Analysis
$100 profitability.
(“MD&A”) in Part II, Item 7 of our annual report on Form
$75 10-K for 2021, filed February 18, 2022. Certain amounts Adjusted net income is net income (loss) applicable
12/31/17 12/31/18 12/31/19 12/31/20 12/31/21 12/31/22 have been reclassified to conform to current year to common shareholders, excluding:
presentation.
• Net gains and losses on investments and derivatives
Allstate S&P P/C S&P 500 The most important factors we monitor to evaluate • Pension and other postretirement remeasurement
the financial condition and performance for our gains and losses
reportable segments and the Company include:
• Business combination expenses and the amortization
Value at each year-end of $100 initial investment made on December 31, 2017
• Allstate Protection: premium, policies in force or impairment of purchased intangibles
12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2019 12/31/2020 12/31/2021 12/31/2022
(“PIF”), new business sales, policy retention, price • Income or loss from discontinued operations
Allstate $ 100.00 $ 80.48 $ 111.72 $ 111.59 $ 122.61 $ 145.10
changes, claim frequency and severity,
S&P P/C $ 100.00 $ 95.31 $ 119.96 $ 127.56 $ 149.89 $ 178.18 catastrophes, loss ratio, expenses, underwriting • Gain or loss on disposition
S&P 500 $ 100.00 $ 95.61 $ 125.70 $ 148.81 $ 191.48 $ 156.77 results, combined ratio and relative competitive • Adjustments for other significant non-recurring,
infrequent or unusual items, when (a) the nature of the
position
charge or gain is such that it is reasonably unlikely to
• Protection Services: revenues, premium written, PIF recur within two years, or (b) there has been no similar
charge or gain within the prior two years
and adjusted net income
• Income tax expense or benefit on reconciling items
• Allstate Health and Benefits: premiums, new
business sales, PIF, benefit ratio, expenses and
adjusted net income
• Investments: exposure to market risk, asset
allocation, credit quality, total return, net
investment income, cash flows, net gains and losses
on investments and derivatives, unrealized capital
gains and losses, long-term returns and asset
duration
• Financial condition: liquidity, parent holding
company deployable assets, financial strength
ratings, operating leverage, debt levels, book value
per share and return on equity
138 2022 Annual Report
139 www.allstate.comCommon Stock Performance Graph 2022 Highlights
Common stock performance graph Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following performance graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on Allstate common stock for 2022 Highlights
a five-year period (December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2022) with the cumulative total return of the S&P Property and
Overview Measuring segment profit or loss
Casualty Insurance Index (S&P P/C) and the S&P 500 stock index.
The following discussion highlights significant The measure of segment profit or loss used in
factors influencing the consolidated financial position evaluating performance is underwriting income for the
Value at Each Year-End
and results of operations of The Allstate Corporation Allstate Protection and Run-off Property-Liability
of $100 Initial Investment Made on December 31, 2017
(referred to in this document as “we,” “our,” “us,” the segments and adjusted net income for the Protection
“Company” or “Allstate”). It should be read in Services, Allstate Health and Benefits, and Corporate
Allstate v. Published Indices conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and Other segments.
and related notes.
Underwriting income is calculated as premiums
$250
A discussion of strategy, including updates to the earned and other revenue, less claims and claims
$225 multi-year Transformative Growth initiative, can be expense (“losses”), Shelter-in-Place Payback expense,
found in Strategy and Segment Information. amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs
$200
(“DAC”), operating costs and expenses, amortization or
This section of this 2022 Annual Report generally
$175 impairment of purchased intangibles, and restructuring
discusses 2022 and 2021 results and year-to-year
and related charges, as determined using accounting
comparisons between 2022 and 2021. Discussions of
$150 principles generally accepted in the United States of
2020 results and year-to-year comparisons between
America (“GAAP”). We use this measure in our
$125 2021 and 2020 that are not included in this report can
evaluation of results of operations to analyze
be found in Management’s Discussion and Analysis
$100 profitability.
(“MD&A”) in Part II, Item 7 of our annual report on Form
$75 10-K for 2021, filed February 18, 2022. Certain amounts Adjusted net income is net income (loss) applicable
12/31/17 12/31/18 12/31/19 12/31/20 12/31/21 12/31/22 have been reclassified to conform to current year to common shareholders, excluding:
presentation.
• Net gains and losses on investments and derivatives
Allstate S&P P/C S&P 500 The most important factors we monitor to evaluate • Pension and other postretirement remeasurement
the financial condition and performance for our gains and losses
reportable segments and the Company include:
• Business combination expenses and the amortization
Value at each year-end of $100 initial investment made on December 31, 2017
• Allstate Protection: premium, policies in force or impairment of purchased intangibles
12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2019 12/31/2020 12/31/2021 12/31/2022
(“PIF”), new business sales, policy retention, price • Income or loss from discontinued operations
Allstate $ 100.00 $ 80.48 $ 111.72 $ 111.59 $ 122.61 $ 145.10
changes, claim frequency and severity,
S&P P/C $ 100.00 $ 95.31 $ 119.96 $ 127.56 $ 149.89 $ 178.18 catastrophes, loss ratio, expenses, underwriting • Gain or loss on disposition
S&P 500 $ 100.00 $ 95.61 $ 125.70 $ 148.81 $ 191.48 $ 156.77 results, combined ratio and relative competitive • Adjustments for other significant non-recurring,
infrequent or unusual items, when (a) the nature of the
position
charge or gain is such that it is reasonably unlikely to
• Protection Services: revenues, premium written, PIF recur within two years, or (b) there has been no similar
charge or gain within the prior two years
and adjusted net income
• Income tax expense or benefit on reconciling items
• Allstate Health and Benefits: premiums, new
business sales, PIF, benefit ratio, expenses and
adjusted net income
• Investments: exposure to market risk, asset
allocation, credit quality, total return, net
investment income, cash flows, net gains and losses
on investments and derivatives, unrealized capital
gains and losses, long-term returns and asset
duration
• Financial condition: liquidity, parent holding
company deployable assets, financial strength
ratings, operating leverage, debt levels, book value
per share and return on equity
138 2022 Annual Report
139 www.allstate.com2022 Highlights 2022 Highlights
Sale of Headquarters Coronavirus had on prior year results. Beginning in Allstate Delivered on 2022 Operating Priorities (1)
March 2020, when shelter-in-place orders and other
On October 18, 2022, Allstate closed the sale of its Better Service Enterprise Net Promoter Score, which measures how likely customers are to recommend us, finished
restrictions were initiated, and throughout 2021, we
headquarters for $232 million resulting in a gain of Customers below the prior year, reflecting substantial price increases necessary to offset higher loss costs.
experienced lower auto accident claim frequency and
approximately $99 million, pre-tax in the fourth quarter Consolidated policies in force reached 189.1 million, a 1.0% decrease from prior year. Property-
different claim patterns than historically experienced.
of 2022. $16 million of the gain was classified in Liability policies in force increased by 0.7% compared to the prior year, as continued growth at
Total auto claim frequency has since increased, but
Property-Liability net gains and losses on investments Grow Customer National General was substantially offset by the Allstate brand as new business was limited in many
and derivatives and $83 million was classified as other remains below pre-pandemic levels. Base states.
revenue within the Corporate and Other segment. The The Coronavirus has affected operations and may Protection Services policies in force declined 1.4%, primarily due to expiring low average premium
policies from a major retail account that ended in 2019.
sale reduces real estate expenses and further continue to significantly affect results of operations,
advances Allstate’s multi-year Transformative Growth financial condition and liquidity. The impact from the Return on average Allstate common shareholders’ equity was (7.3)% in 2022.
initiative. pandemic should be considered when comparing the Achieve Target The Property-Liability combined ratio of 106.6 for the full year increased compared to the prior year
current year to the prior years, including: Economic Returns primarily driven by higher auto losses. We continued to reduce expenses by lowering direct sales and
Acquisitions and Dispositions
on Capital advertising spend and are reducing exposure in states with unacceptable auto and home insurance
• Sales of new and retention of existing policies margins through underwriting restrictions. Our claims organization is executing a plan to manage the
Acquisitions On January 4, 2021, we completed the
acquisition of National General Holdings Corp. • Rate changes and average gross premiums impacts of a higher loss cost environment.
(“National General”), significantly enhancing our • Supply chain disruptions and labor shortages Net investment income of $2.40 billion in 2022 was $890 million below prior year as higher market-
based investment income was more than offset by lower performance-based results.
strategic position in the independent agency channel. impacts on the cost of settling claims
Proactively Manage Total return on the $61.83 billion investment portfolio was (4.0)% in 2022 and compares favorably to
Discontinued operations and held for sale On • Premium for transportation network products Investments full year 2022 performance of the S&P 500 of (18.1)% and the Bloomberg Intermediate Bond return of
October 1, 2021, we closed the sale of Allstate Life • Driving behavior and auto accident frequency (9.4)%. Proactive portfolio actions to reduce inflation and economic risk by shortening fixed income
Insurance Company of New York (“ALNY”) to Wilton • Hospital and outpatient claim costs duration mitigated portfolio losses by approximately $2 billion this year.
Reassurance Company for $400 million. On November Allstate made substantial progress in advancing Transformative Growth initiatives in 2022, including
• Investment valuations and returns
1, 2021, we closed the sale of Allstate Life Insurance continued cost reductions, deploying a new property-liability technology platform and a new
Company (“ALIC”) and certain affiliates to entities • Bad debt and credit allowance exposure Affordable, Simple and Connected auto insurance offering in two states.
managed by Blackstone for total proceeds of $4 billion, • Consumer utilization of Milewise®, our pay-per-mile Build Long-Term National General is meeting or exceeding acquisition performance targets with the objective of building
including a pre-close dividend of $1.25 billion paid by insurance product Growth Platforms a strong competitive position in independent agent distribution.
ALIC. In 2021, the assets and liabilities of the
• Retail sales in Allstate Protection Plans Protection Services has increased revenues, particularly Allstate Protection Plans. Arity continued to
businesses were reclassified as held for sale and expand its data acquisition platform with more than one trillion miles of traffic data and launched Arity
results are presented as discontinued operations. This A pandemic such as the Coronavirus and its IQ, a product to improve new business profitability for auto insurers.
change was applied on a retrospective basis. impacts are disclosed in Form 10-K Part 1 “Item 1A. Risk
Factors’’, including the risk factors titled “A large-scale (1) 2023 operating priorities will remain mostly consistent with the 2022 priorities, with “Building Long-Term Growth Platforms”
In connection with the sale of ALIC and certain pandemic, the occurrence of terrorism, military actions, expanding to “Execute Transformative Growth” to fully integrate Transformative Growth goals.
affiliates in 2021, the sale agreement includes a
social unrest or other actions may have an adverse
provision related to contingent consideration that may Consolidated Net Income
effect on our business” and “Conditions in the global
be earned over a ten-year period with the first ($ in millions)
economy and capital markets could continue to
potential payment date commencing on January 1,
adversely affect our business and results of
Consolidated net loss applicable to common
2026 and a final potential payment date of January 1,
operations”. $10,000 shareholders was $1.42 billion in 2022 compared to net
2035. The contingent consideration is determined
$5,461 income of $1.49 billion in 2021, primarily due to an
annually based on the average ten-year Treasury rate Supply chain disruptions, labor shortages and $5,000 underwriting loss, equity valuation decreases and losses
over the preceding three-year period compared to a other macroeconomic factors have increased inflation, $1,485 on investment sales, partially offset by the absence of the
designated rate. The contingent consideration meets which may have an adverse impact on investment $0 2021 loss on sale of the life and annuities business.
the definition of a derivative and is accounted for on a valuations and returns. As inflation continued to remain For the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, return
$(1,416)
fair value basis with periodic changes in fair value elevated, the Federal Reserve significantly increased $-5,000 on Allstate common shareholders’ equity was (7.3)%
reflected in earnings. interest rates and credit spreads widened reflecting 2022 2021 2020 compared to 5.8% for the twelve months ended
ongoing recession concerns. These factors along with December 31, 2021.
See Note 3 of the consolidated financial
other ongoing impacts from the pandemic create
statements for further information on acquisitions and Total Revenue
significant economic uncertainty and the resulting
dispositions. ($ in millions)
market volatility may continue to impact our
Macroeconomic Impacts investment valuations and returns.
The Novel Coronavirus Pandemic or COVID-19 This list is not inclusive of all potential impacts and $ $ 4 6 0 0 , , 0 0 0 0 0 0 $51,412 $50,588 $41,909 T co o m ta p l r a e r v e e d n t u o e 2 in 0 c 2 r 1 e , a p s r e im d a 1 r . i 6 ly % d u to e $ to 5 1 a . n 4 1 8 . b 7 i % llio i n n c in re 2 a 0 s 2 e 2 i n
(“Coronavirus”) resulted in governments worldwide should not be treated as such. Within the MD&A we property and casualty insurance premiums earned,
enacting emergency measures to combat the spread have included further disclosures related to $20,000 partially offset by net losses on investments and
of the virus, including travel restrictions, government- macroeconomic impacts on our 2022 results. $0 derivatives in 2022 compared to net gains in 2021 and a
imposed shelter-in-place orders, quarantine periods, 2022 2021 2020 decrease in net investment income.
Russia/Ukraine Conflict
social distancing, and restrictions on large gatherings.
These measures have moderated significantly, but new The Russia-Ukraine war and related sanctions Net Investment Income
variants of the Coronavirus could result in further imposed as a result of this conflict have increased ($ in millions)
economic volatility. We continue to closely monitor and global economic and political uncertainty, including
p co ro n a d c it t i i o v n e s ly . C ad u a rr p e t n t t o ly d , i e t v is e l n o o p t m p e o n s t s s i b a l n e d t o c h re a l n ia g b in ly g i c n y f b la e t r io se n c a u ry ri t p y r e in s c s i u d r e e n s t a s. n A d l l a s n ta i t n e c r d e o a e s s e d n o r t is h k a o v f e $4,000 $2,403 $3,293 Net investment income decreased $890 million to $2.40
estimate the continuing impact to operations, but the operations or direct investments in Russia, Belarus or $2,000 $1,590 billion in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to lower
performance-based investment results, mainly from
effects have been and could be material. Ukraine, but we could experience significant indirect $0 limited partnerships, partially offset by higher market-
impacts on the investment portfolio, financial position, 2022 2021 2020 based fixed income portfolio yields.
Certain growth and profitability comparisons to the
or results of operations.
prior year were impacted, in part, by the effects the
140 2022 Annual Report
141 www.allstate.com2022 Highlights 2022 Highlights
Sale of Headquarters Coronavirus had on prior year results. Beginning in Allstate Delivered on 2022 Operating Priorities (1)
March 2020, when shelter-in-place orders and other
On October 18, 2022, Allstate closed the sale of its Better Service Enterprise Net Promoter Score, which measures how likely customers are to recommend us, finished
restrictions were initiated, and throughout 2021, we
headquarters for $232 million resulting in a gain of Customers below the prior year, reflecting substantial price increases necessary to offset higher loss costs.
experienced lower auto accident claim frequency and
approximately $99 million, pre-tax in the fourth quarter Consolidated policies in force reached 189.1 million, a 1.0% decrease from prior year. Property-
different claim patterns than historically experienced.
of 2022. $16 million of the gain was classified in Liability policies in force increased by 0.7% compared to the prior year, as continued growth at
Total auto claim frequency has since increased, but
Property-Liability net gains and losses on investments Grow Customer National General was substantially offset by the Allstate brand as new business was limited in many
and derivatives and $83 million was classified as other remains below pre-pandemic levels. Base states.
revenue within the Corporate and Other segment. The The Coronavirus has affected operations and may Protection Services policies in force declined 1.4%, primarily due to expiring low average premium
policies from a major retail account that ended in 2019.
sale reduces real estate expenses and further continue to significantly affect results of operations,
advances Allstate’s multi-year Transformative Growth financial condition and liquidity. The impact from the Return on average Allstate common shareholders’ equity was (7.3)% in 2022.
initiative. pandemic should be considered when comparing the Achieve Target The Property-Liability combined ratio of 106.6 for the full year increased compared to the prior year
current year to the prior years, including: Economic Returns primarily driven by higher auto losses. We continued to reduce expenses by lowering direct sales and
Acquisitions and Dispositions
on Capital advertising spend and are reducing exposure in states with unacceptable auto and home insurance
• Sales of new and retention of existing policies margins through underwriting restrictions. Our claims organization is executing a plan to manage the
Acquisitions On January 4, 2021, we completed the
acquisition of National General Holdings Corp. • Rate changes and average gross premiums impacts of a higher loss cost environment.
(“National General”), significantly enhancing our • Supply chain disruptions and labor shortages Net investment income of $2.40 billion in 2022 was $890 million below prior year as higher market-
based investment income was more than offset by lower performance-based results.
strategic position in the independent agency channel. impacts on the cost of settling claims
Proactively Manage Total return on the $61.83 billion investment portfolio was (4.0)% in 2022 and compares favorably to
Discontinued operations and held for sale On • Premium for transportation network products Investments full year 2022 performance of the S&P 500 of (18.1)% and the Bloomberg Intermediate Bond return of
October 1, 2021, we closed the sale of Allstate Life • Driving behavior and auto accident frequency (9.4)%. Proactive portfolio actions to reduce inflation and economic risk by shortening fixed income
Insurance Company of New York (“ALNY”) to Wilton • Hospital and outpatient claim costs duration mitigated portfolio losses by approximately $2 billion this year.
Reassurance Company for $400 million. On November Allstate made substantial progress in advancing Transformative Growth initiatives in 2022, including
• Investment valuations and returns
1, 2021, we closed the sale of Allstate Life Insurance continued cost reductions, deploying a new property-liability technology platform and a new
Company (“ALIC”) and certain affiliates to entities • Bad debt and credit allowance exposure Affordable, Simple and Connected auto insurance offering in two states.
managed by Blackstone for total proceeds of $4 billion, • Consumer utilization of Milewise®, our pay-per-mile Build Long-Term National General is meeting or exceeding acquisition performance targets with the objective of building
including a pre-close dividend of $1.25 billion paid by insurance product Growth Platforms a strong competitive position in independent agent distribution.
ALIC. In 2021, the assets and liabilities of the
• Retail sales in Allstate Protection Plans Protection Services has increased revenues, particularly Allstate Protection Plans. Arity continued to
businesses were reclassified as held for sale and expand its data acquisition platform with more than one trillion miles of traffic data and launched Arity
results are presented as discontinued operations. This A pandemic such as the Coronavirus and its IQ, a product to improve new business profitability for auto insurers.
change was applied on a retrospective basis. impacts are disclosed in Form 10-K Part 1 “Item 1A. Risk
Factors’’, including the risk factors titled “A large-scale (1) 2023 operating priorities will remain mostly consistent with the 2022 priorities, with “Building Long-Term Growth Platforms”
In connection with the sale of ALIC and certain pandemic, the occurrence of terrorism, military actions, expanding to “Execute Transformative Growth” to fully integrate Transformative Growth goals.
affiliates in 2021, the sale agreement includes a
social unrest or other actions may have an adverse
provision related to contingent consideration that may Consolidated Net Income
effect on our business” and “Conditions in the global
be earned over a ten-year period with the first ($ in millions)
economy and capital markets could continue to
potential payment date commencing on January 1,
adversely affect our business and results of
Consolidated net loss applicable to common
2026 and a final potential payment date of January 1,
operations”. $10,000 shareholders was $1.42 billion in 2022 compared to net
2035. The contingent consideration is determined
$5,461 income of $1.49 billion in 2021, primarily due to an
annually based on the average ten-year Treasury rate Supply chain disruptions, labor shortages and $5,000 underwriting loss, equity valuation decreases and losses
over the preceding three-year period compared to a other macroeconomic factors have increased inflation, $1,485 on investment sales, partially offset by the absence of the
designated rate. The contingent consideration meets which may have an adverse impact on investment $0 2021 loss on sale of the life and annuities business.
the definition of a derivative and is accounted for on a valuations and returns. As inflation continued to remain For the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, return
$(1,416)
fair value basis with periodic changes in fair value elevated, the Federal Reserve significantly increased $-5,000 on Allstate common shareholders’ equity was (7.3)%
reflected in earnings. interest rates and credit spreads widened reflecting 2022 2021 2020 compared to 5.8% for the twelve months ended
ongoing recession concerns. These factors along with December 31, 2021.
See Note 3 of the consolidated financial
other ongoing impacts from the pandemic create
statements for further information on acquisitions and Total Revenue
significant economic uncertainty and the resulting
dispositions. ($ in millions)
market volatility may continue to impact our
Macroeconomic Impacts investment valuations and returns.
The Novel Coronavirus Pandemic or COVID-19 This list is not inclusive of all potential impacts and $ $ 4 6 0 0 , , 0 0 0 0 0 0 $51,412 $50,588 $41,909 c T o o m ta p l r a e r v e e d n t u o e 2 in 0 c 2 r 1 e , a p s r e im d a 1 r . i 6 ly % d u to e $ to 5 1 a . n 4 1 8 . b 7 i % llio i n n c in re 2 a 0 s 2 e 2 i n
(“Coronavirus”) resulted in governments worldwide should not be treated as such. Within the MD&A we property and casualty insurance premiums earned,
enacting emergency measures to combat the spread have included further disclosures related to $20,000 partially offset by net losses on investments and
of the virus, including travel restrictions, government- macroeconomic impacts on our 2022 results. $0 derivatives in 2022 compared to net gains in 2021 and a
imposed shelter-in-place orders, quarantine periods, 2022 2021 2020 decrease in net investment income.
Russia/Ukraine Conflict
social distancing, and restrictions on large gatherings.
These measures have moderated significantly, but new The Russia-Ukraine war and related sanctions Net Investment Income
variants of the Coronavirus could result in further imposed as a result of this conflict have increased ($ in millions)
economic volatility. We continue to closely monitor and global economic and political uncertainty, including
p co ro n a d c it t i i o v n e s ly . C ad u a rr p e t n t t o ly d , i e t v is e l n o o p t m p e o n s t s s i b a l n e d t o c h re a l n ia g b in ly g i c n y f b la e t r io se n c a u ry ri t p y r e in s c s i u d r e e n s t a s. n A d l l a s n ta i t n e c r d e o a e s s e d n o r t is h k a o v f e $4,000 $2,403 $3,293 Net investment income decreased $890 million to $2.40
estimate the continuing impact to operations, but the operations or direct investments in Russia, Belarus or $2,000 $1,590 billion in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to lower
performance-based investment results, mainly from
effects have been and could be material. Ukraine, but we could experience significant indirect $0 limited partnerships, partially offset by higher market-
impacts on the investment portfolio, financial position, 2022 2021 2020 based fixed income portfolio yields.
Certain growth and profitability comparisons to the
or results of operations.
prior year were impacted, in part, by the effects the
140 2022 Annual Report
141 www.allstate.com2022 Highlights 2022 Highlights
Summarized financial results Financial Highlights Return on average common Allstate shareholders’
equity For the twelve months ended December 31,
Years Ended December 31, Investments totaled $61.83 billion as of
2022, return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 December 31, 2022, decreasing from $64.70 billion as was (7.3)%, a decrease of 13.1 points from 5.8% for the
Revenues of December 31, 2021. twelve months ended December 31, 2021, primarily due
Property and casualty insurance premiums $ 45,904 $ 42,218 $ 37,073 Allstate shareholders’ equity was $17.48 billion as to net loss applicable to common shareholders.
Accident and health insurance premiums and contract charges 1,833 1,821 1,094 of December 31, 2022 and $25.18 billion as of
Pension and other postretirement remeasurement
Other revenue 2,344 2,172 1,065 December 31, 2021. The decrease is primarily due to
gains and losses We recorded pension and other
Net investment income 2,403 3,293 1,590 net unrealized capital losses on investments in 2022
postretirement remeasurement losses of $116 million in
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives (1,072) 1,084 1,087 compared to gains at 2021, common share 2022, primarily related to unfavorable asset
repurchases, a net loss and dividends paid to
Total revenues 51,412 50,588 41,909 performance compared to the expected return on plan
shareholders.
assets, partially offset by a reduction in the projected
Costs and expenses
Book value per diluted common share (ratio of benefit obligation due to an increase in the liability
Property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense (37,264) (29,318) (22,001)
Allstate common shareholders’ equity to total common discount rate. See Note 18 of the consolidated financial
Shelter-in-Place Payback expense — (29) (948)
shares outstanding and dilutive potential common statements and Application of Critical Accounting
Accident, health and other policy benefits (1,061) (1,049) (549)
shares outstanding) was $58.07 as of December 31, Estimates section of the MD&A for further information.
Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (6,644) (6,252) (5,477)
2022, a decrease of 28.8% from $81.52 as of
Operating, restructuring and interest expenses (7,832) (7,760) (6,065) December 31, 2021.
Pension and other postretirement remeasurement gains (losses) (116) 644 51
Amortization of purchased intangibles (353) (376) (118)
Total costs and expenses (53,270) (44,140) (35,107)
(Loss) income from operations before income tax expense (1,858) 6,448 6,802
Income tax benefit (expense) 494 (1,289) (1,373)
Net (loss) income from continuing operations (1,364) 5,159 5,429
(Loss) income from discontinued operations, net of tax — (3,593) 147
Net (loss) income (1,364) 1,566 5,576
Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (53) (33) —
Net (loss) income attributable to Allstate (1,311) 1,599 5,576
Preferred stock dividends (105) (114) (115)
Net (loss) income applicable to common shareholders $ (1,416) $ 1,485 $ 5,461
Segment Highlights
Allstate Protection underwriting loss was $2.78 Allstate Health and Benefits adjusted net income
billion in 2022 compared to income of $1.79 billion in was $222 million in 2022 compared to $208 million in
2021, primarily due to higher auto insurance losses and 2021. The increase was primarily due to increases in
unfavorable reserve reestimates, both excluding group health revenues, partially offset by higher
catastrophes, partially offset by increased premiums operating costs and expenses and group health
earned. We are executing a comprehensive plan to contract benefits.
improve auto insurance profitability, including broadly
Premiums and contract charges totaled $1.83
raising rates, reducing operating expenses and
billion in 2022, an increase of 0.7% from $1.82 billion in
advertising, implementing underwriting restrictions in
2021 primarily due to growth in group health, partially
underperforming states and executing claims
offset by a decline in individual health.
operating actions to manage loss costs.
Catastrophe losses were $3.11 billion in 2022
compared to $3.34 billion in 2021.
Premiums written increased 10.7% to $45.79 billion
in 2022 compared to $41.36 billion in 2021, reflecting
higher premiums in both Allstate and National General
brands.
Protection Services adjusted net income was $169
million in 2022 compared to $179 million in 2021. The
decrease in 2022 was primarily due to higher
technology expenses at Allstate Identity Protection
and lower revenue at Arity.
Premiums and other revenues increased 10.6% or
$224 million to $2.34 billion in 2022 from $2.12 billion in
2021 primarily due to Allstate Protection Plans.
142 2022 Annual Report
143 www.allstate.com2022 Highlights 2022 Highlights
Summarized financial results Financial Highlights Return on average common Allstate shareholders’
equity For the twelve months ended December 31,
Years Ended December 31, Investments totaled $61.83 billion as of
2022, return on Allstate common shareholders’ equity
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 December 31, 2022, decreasing from $64.70 billion as was (7.3)%, a decrease of 13.1 points from 5.8% for the
Revenues of December 31, 2021. twelve months ended December 31, 2021, primarily due
Property and casualty insurance premiums $ 45,904 $ 42,218 $ 37,073 Allstate shareholders’ equity was $17.48 billion as to net loss applicable to common shareholders.
Accident and health insurance premiums and contract charges 1,833 1,821 1,094 of December 31, 2022 and $25.18 billion as of
Pension and other postretirement remeasurement
Other revenue 2,344 2,172 1,065 December 31, 2021. The decrease is primarily due to
gains and losses We recorded pension and other
Net investment income 2,403 3,293 1,590 net unrealized capital losses on investments in 2022
postretirement remeasurement losses of $116 million in
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives (1,072) 1,084 1,087 compared to gains at 2021, common share 2022, primarily related to unfavorable asset
repurchases, a net loss and dividends paid to
Total revenues 51,412 50,588 41,909 performance compared to the expected return on plan
shareholders.
assets, partially offset by a reduction in the projected
Costs and expenses
Book value per diluted common share (ratio of benefit obligation due to an increase in the liability
Property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense (37,264) (29,318) (22,001)
Allstate common shareholders’ equity to total common discount rate. See Note 18 of the consolidated financial
Shelter-in-Place Payback expense — (29) (948)
shares outstanding and dilutive potential common statements and Application of Critical Accounting
Accident, health and other policy benefits (1,061) (1,049) (549)
shares outstanding) was $58.07 as of December 31, Estimates section of the MD&A for further information.
Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (6,644) (6,252) (5,477)
2022, a decrease of 28.8% from $81.52 as of
Operating, restructuring and interest expenses (7,832) (7,760) (6,065) December 31, 2021.
Pension and other postretirement remeasurement gains (losses) (116) 644 51
Amortization of purchased intangibles (353) (376) (118)
Total costs and expenses (53,270) (44,140) (35,107)
(Loss) income from operations before income tax expense (1,858) 6,448 6,802
Income tax benefit (expense) 494 (1,289) (1,373)
Net (loss) income from continuing operations (1,364) 5,159 5,429
(Loss) income from discontinued operations, net of tax — (3,593) 147
Net (loss) income (1,364) 1,566 5,576
Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (53) (33) —
Net (loss) income attributable to Allstate (1,311) 1,599 5,576
Preferred stock dividends (105) (114) (115)
Net (loss) income applicable to common shareholders $ (1,416) $ 1,485 $ 5,461
Segment Highlights
Allstate Protection underwriting loss was $2.78 Allstate Health and Benefits adjusted net income
billion in 2022 compared to income of $1.79 billion in was $222 million in 2022 compared to $208 million in
2021, primarily due to higher auto insurance losses and 2021. The increase was primarily due to increases in
unfavorable reserve reestimates, both excluding group health revenues, partially offset by higher
catastrophes, partially offset by increased premiums operating costs and expenses and group health
earned. We are executing a comprehensive plan to contract benefits.
improve auto insurance profitability, including broadly
Premiums and contract charges totaled $1.83
raising rates, reducing operating expenses and
billion in 2022, an increase of 0.7% from $1.82 billion in
advertising, implementing underwriting restrictions in
2021 primarily due to growth in group health, partially
underperforming states and executing claims
offset by a decline in individual health.
operating actions to manage loss costs.
Catastrophe losses were $3.11 billion in 2022
compared to $3.34 billion in 2021.
Premiums written increased 10.7% to $45.79 billion
in 2022 compared to $41.36 billion in 2021, reflecting
higher premiums in both Allstate and National General
brands.
Protection Services adjusted net income was $169
million in 2022 compared to $179 million in 2021. The
decrease in 2022 was primarily due to higher
technology expenses at Allstate Identity Protection
and lower revenue at Arity.
Premiums and other revenues increased 10.6% or
$224 million to $2.34 billion in 2022 from $2.12 billion in
2021 primarily due to Allstate Protection Plans.
142 2022 Annual Report
143 www.allstate.comProperty-Liability Property-Liability
Property-Liability Operations • Paid claim severity is calculated by dividing the • Percent change in report year incurred claim
sum of paid losses and loss expenses by claims severity statistic is calculated as the amount of
Overview Property-Liability operations consist of Premium measures and statistics are used to closed with a payment during the period. increase or decrease in report year incurred claim
two reportable segments: Allstate Protection and Run- analyze our premium trends and are calculated as severity recorded in the current report year divided
• Percent change in frequency or paid claim severity
off Property-Liability. These segments are consistent follows: by the current estimate of the prior report year
statistics are calculated as the amount of increase
with the groupings of financial information that • PIF: policy counts are based on items rather than or decrease in gross claim frequency or paid claim incurred claim severity.
management uses to evaluate performance and to
customers. A multi-car customer would generate severity in the current period compared to the
determine the allocation of resources.
multiple item (policy) counts, even if all cars were same period in the prior year divided by the prior
We do not allocate Property-Liability investment insured under one policy. Commercial lines PIF year gross claim frequency or paid claim severity.
income, net gains and losses on investments and counts for shared economy agreements typically
derivatives, or assets to the Allstate Protection and reflect contracts that cover multiple rather than Underwriting results
Run-off Property-Liability segments. Management individual drivers. ($ in millions, except ratios) 2022 2021 2020
reviews assets at the Property-Liability level for • New issued applications: item counts of Premiums written $ 45,787 $ 41,358 $ 35,768
decision-making purposes.
automobile or homeowner insurance applications Premiums earned $ 43,909 $ 40,454 $ 35,580
GAAP operating ratios are used to measure our for insurance policies that were issued during the Other revenue 1,416 1,437 857
profitability to enhance an investor’s understanding of period, regardless of whether the customer was Claims and claims expense (36,732) (28,876) (21,626)
our financial results and are calculated as follows: previously insured by another Allstate brand. Shelter-in-Place Payback expense — (29) (948)
• Loss ratio: the ratio of claims and claims expense • Average premium-gross written (“average Amortization of DAC (5,570) (5,313) (4,642)
(loss adjustment expenses), to premiums earned. premium”): gross premiums written divided by Other costs and expenses (5,650) (5,622) (4,549)
Loss ratios include the impact of catastrophe issued item count. Gross premiums written include Restructuring and related charges (1) (44) (145) (235)
losses and prior year reserve reestimates. the impacts from discounts, surcharges and ceded Amortization of purchased intangibles (240) (241) (12)
reinsurance premiums and exclude the impacts
• Expense ratio: the ratio of amortization of DAC, Underwriting (loss) income $ (2,911) $ 1,665 $ 4,425
from mid-term premium adjustments and premium
operating costs and expenses, amortization or
refund accruals. Average premiums represent the
impairment of purchased intangibles, restructuring Catastrophe losses
appropriate policy term for each line.
and related charges and Shelter-in-Place Payback Catastrophe losses, excluding reserve reestimates $ 3,094 $ 3,541 $ 3,314
expense, less other revenue to premiums earned. • Renewal ratio: renewal policy item counts issued Catastrophe reserve reestimates (2) 18 (202) (503)
during the period, based on contract effective
• Combined ratio: the sum of the loss ratio and the Total catastrophe losses $ 3,112 $ 3,339 $ 2,811
dates, divided by the total policy item counts
expense ratio.
issued generally 6 months prior for auto or 12
We have also calculated the following impacts of months prior for homeowners. Non-catastrophe reserve reestimates (2) 1,726 326 68
specific items on the GAAP operating ratios because of Prior year reserve reestimates (2) 1,744 124 (435)
• Implemented rate changes: represents the impact
the volatility of these items between periods. The
in the locations (U.S. states, the District of
impacts are calculated by taking the specific items GAAP operating ratios
Columbia or Canadian provinces) where rate
noted below divided by Property-Liability premiums changes were implemented during the period as a Loss ratio 83.6 71.4 60.8
earned: percentage of total brand prior year-end premiums Expense ratio (3) 23.0 24.5 26.8
• Effect of catastrophe losses on combined ratio: written. Combined ratio 106.6 95.9 87.6
includes catastrophe losses and prior year reserve Effect of catastrophe losses on combined ratio 7.1 8.3 7.9
Frequency and severity statistics, which are
reestimates of catastrophe losses included in influenced by driving patterns, inflation and other Effect of prior year reserve reestimates on combined ratio 3.9 0.3 (1.2)
claims and claims expense factors, are provided to describe the trends in loss Effect of catastrophe losses included in prior year reserve reestimates on
combined ratio — (0.5) (1.4)
• Effect of prior year reserve reestimates on costs. Our reserving process incorporates changes in
combined ratio loss patterns, operational statistics and changes in Effect of restructuring and related charges on combined ratio (1) 0.1 0.4 0.7
claims reporting processes to determine our best Effect of amortization of purchased intangibles on combined ratio 0.5 0.6 0.1
• Effect of amortization of purchased intangibles on
estimate of recorded reserves. We use the following Effect of Shelter-in-Place Payback expense on combined and expense ratios — 0.1 2.7
combined ratio
statistics to evaluate losses: Effect of Run-off Property-Liability business on combined ratio 0.3 0.3 0.4
• Effect of restructuring and related charges on
combined ratio • Gross claim frequency is calculated as annualized (1) Restructuring and related charges in 2022 primarily related to future work environment and employee costs. See Note 14 of the
notice counts, excluding counts associated with consolidated financial statements for additional details.
• Effect of Shelter-in-Place Payback expense on catastrophe events, received in the period divided (2)Favorable reserve reestimates are shown in parentheses.
combined and expense ratios by the average of PIF with the applicable coverage
(3)Other revenue is deducted from operating costs and expenses in the expense ratio calculation.
during the period. Gross claim frequency includes
• Effect of Run-off Property-Liability business on
all actual notice counts, regardless of their current
combined ratio: includes claims and claims
status (open or closed) or their ultimate disposition
expense, restructuring and related charges and
(closed with a payment or closed without
operating costs and expenses in the Run-off
payment).
Property-Liability segment
• Report year incurred claim severity is calculated by
dividing the sum of recorded estimated incurred
losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses,
excluding catastrophes, by the reported notice
counts during that report year. Report year
incurred claim severity does not include incurred
but not reported (“IBNR”) losses or benefits from
subrogation and salvage.
144 2022 Annual Report
145 www.allstate.comProperty-Liability Property-Liability
Property-Liability Operations • Paid claim severity is calculated by dividing the • Percent change in report year incurred claim
sum of paid losses and loss expenses by claims severity statistic is calculated as the amount of
Overview Property-Liability operations consist of Premium measures and statistics are used to closed with a payment during the period. increase or decrease in report year incurred claim
two reportable segments: Allstate Protection and Run- analyze our premium trends and are calculated as severity recorded in the current report year divided
• Percent change in frequency or paid claim severity
off Property-Liability. These segments are consistent follows: by the current estimate of the prior report year
statistics are calculated as the amount of increase
with the groupings of financial information that • PIF: policy counts are based on items rather than or decrease in gross claim frequency or paid claim incurred claim severity.
management uses to evaluate performance and to
customers. A multi-car customer would generate severity in the current period compared to the
determine the allocation of resources.
multiple item (policy) counts, even if all cars were same period in the prior year divided by the prior
We do not allocate Property-Liability investment insured under one policy. Commercial lines PIF year gross claim frequency or paid claim severity.
income, net gains and losses on investments and counts for shared economy agreements typically
derivatives, or assets to the Allstate Protection and reflect contracts that cover multiple rather than Underwriting results
Run-off Property-Liability segments. Management individual drivers. ($ in millions, except ratios) 2022 2021 2020
reviews assets at the Property-Liability level for • New issued applications: item counts of Premiums written $ 45,787 $ 41,358 $ 35,768
decision-making purposes.
automobile or homeowner insurance applications Premiums earned $ 43,909 $ 40,454 $ 35,580
GAAP operating ratios are used to measure our for insurance policies that were issued during the Other revenue 1,416 1,437 857
profitability to enhance an investor’s understanding of period, regardless of whether the customer was Claims and claims expense (36,732) (28,876) (21,626)
our financial results and are calculated as follows: previously insured by another Allstate brand. Shelter-in-Place Payback expense — (29) (948)
• Loss ratio: the ratio of claims and claims expense • Average premium-gross written (“average Amortization of DAC (5,570) (5,313) (4,642)
(loss adjustment expenses), to premiums earned. premium”): gross premiums written divided by Other costs and expenses (5,650) (5,622) (4,549)
Loss ratios include the impact of catastrophe issued item count. Gross premiums written include Restructuring and related charges (1) (44) (145) (235)
losses and prior year reserve reestimates. the impacts from discounts, surcharges and ceded Amortization of purchased intangibles (240) (241) (12)
reinsurance premiums and exclude the impacts
• Expense ratio: the ratio of amortization of DAC, Underwriting (loss) income $ (2,911) $ 1,665 $ 4,425
from mid-term premium adjustments and premium
operating costs and expenses, amortization or
refund accruals. Average premiums represent the
impairment of purchased intangibles, restructuring Catastrophe losses
appropriate policy term for each line.
and related charges and Shelter-in-Place Payback Catastrophe losses, excluding reserve reestimates $ 3,094 $ 3,541 $ 3,314
expense, less other revenue to premiums earned. • Renewal ratio: renewal policy item counts issued Catastrophe reserve reestimates (2) 18 (202) (503)
during the period, based on contract effective
• Combined ratio: the sum of the loss ratio and the Total catastrophe losses $ 3,112 $ 3,339 $ 2,811
dates, divided by the total policy item counts
expense ratio.
issued generally 6 months prior for auto or 12
We have also calculated the following impacts of months prior for homeowners. Non-catastrophe reserve reestimates (2) 1,726 326 68
specific items on the GAAP operating ratios because of Prior year reserve reestimates (2) 1,744 124 (435)
• Implemented rate changes: represents the impact
the volatility of these items between periods. The
in the locations (U.S. states, the District of
impacts are calculated by taking the specific items GAAP operating ratios
Columbia or Canadian provinces) where rate
noted below divided by Property-Liability premiums changes were implemented during the period as a Loss ratio 83.6 71.4 60.8
earned: percentage of total brand prior year-end premiums Expense ratio (3) 23.0 24.5 26.8
• Effect of catastrophe losses on combined ratio: written. Combined ratio 106.6 95.9 87.6
includes catastrophe losses and prior year reserve Effect of catastrophe losses on combined ratio 7.1 8.3 7.9
Frequency and severity statistics, which are
reestimates of catastrophe losses included in influenced by driving patterns, inflation and other Effect of prior year reserve reestimates on combined ratio 3.9 0.3 (1.2)
claims and claims expense factors, are provided to describe the trends in loss Effect of catastrophe losses included in prior year reserve reestimates on
combined ratio — (0.5) (1.4)
• Effect of prior year reserve reestimates on costs. Our reserving process incorporates changes in
combined ratio loss patterns, operational statistics and changes in Effect of restructuring and related charges on combined ratio (1) 0.1 0.4 0.7
claims reporting processes to determine our best Effect of amortization of purchased intangibles on combined ratio 0.5 0.6 0.1
• Effect of amortization of purchased intangibles on
estimate of recorded reserves. We use the following Effect of Shelter-in-Place Payback expense on combined and expense ratios — 0.1 2.7
combined ratio
statistics to evaluate losses: Effect of Run-off Property-Liability business on combined ratio 0.3 0.3 0.4
• Effect of restructuring and related charges on
combined ratio • Gross claim frequency is calculated as annualized (1) Restructuring and related charges in 2022 primarily related to future work environment and employee costs. See Note 14 of the
notice counts, excluding counts associated with consolidated financial statements for additional details.
• Effect of Shelter-in-Place Payback expense on catastrophe events, received in the period divided (2)Favorable reserve reestimates are shown in parentheses.
combined and expense ratios by the average of PIF with the applicable coverage
(3)Other revenue is deducted from operating costs and expenses in the expense ratio calculation.
during the period. Gross claim frequency includes
• Effect of Run-off Property-Liability business on
all actual notice counts, regardless of their current
combined ratio: includes claims and claims
status (open or closed) or their ultimate disposition
expense, restructuring and related charges and
(closed with a payment or closed without
operating costs and expenses in the Run-off
payment).
Property-Liability segment
• Report year incurred claim severity is calculated by
dividing the sum of recorded estimated incurred
losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses,
excluding catastrophes, by the reported notice
counts during that report year. Report year
incurred claim severity does not include incurred
but not reported (“IBNR”) losses or benefits from
subrogation and salvage.
144 2022 Annual Report
145 www.allstate.comAllstate Protection Allstate Protection
Allstate Protection Segment Underwriting income (loss) by brand and by line of business
For the years ended December 31,
Allstate Brand National General Allstate Protection
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
Auto (1) $ (2,846) $ 1,208 $ 3,404 $ (168) $ 54 $ 40 $ (3,014) $ 1,262 $ 3,444
Homeowners (2) (3) 701 411 798 (20) (92) 26 681 319 824
Other personal lines (4) (85) 216 255 (3) 17 9 (88) 233 264
Private passenger auto, homeowners, and other personal lines insurance products are offered to consumers
Commercial lines (478) (158) (36) 14 — — (464) (158) (36)
through exclusive and independent agents, directly through contact centers and online. The Encompass brand was
combined into National General beginning in the first quarter of 2021, and results prior to 2021 reflect Encompass Other business lines (5) 95 115 70 — — — 95 115 70
brand results only. Our strategy is to offer products that allow customers to interact with us when, where and how they Answer Financial — — — — — — 8 14 3
want with affordable, simple and connected protection products. Additional information on our strategy and outlook Total $ (2,613) $ 1,792 $ 4,491 $ (177) $ (21) $ 75 $ (2,782) $ 1,785 $ 4,569
can be found in Strategy and Segment Information.
(1) 2021 results include certain National General commercial lines insurance products.
Underwriting results (2)2021 results include National General packaged policies, which include auto, and commercial lines insurance products.
For the years ended December 31, (3)Includes lender-placed property.
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 (4)Other personal lines include renters, condominium, landlord and other personal lines products.
Premiums written $ 45,787 $ 41,358 $ 35,768 (5)Other business lines primarily represents revenue and direct operating expenses of Ivantage and distribution of non-proprietary
Premiums earned $ 43,909 $ 40,454 $ 35,580 life and annuity products. Ivantage, a general agency for Allstate exclusive agents, provides agents a solution for their customers
Other revenue 1,416 1,437 857 when coverage through Allstate brand underwritten products is not available.
Claims and claims expense (36,607) (28,760) (21,485) Underwriting loss was $2.78 billion in 2022 compared to underwriting income of $1.79 billion in 2021, primarily due
Shelter-in-Place Payback expense — (29) (948) to higher auto insurance losses and unfavorable reserve reestimates, both excluding catastrophes, partially offset by
Amortization of DAC (5,570) (5,313) (4,642) increased premiums earned. We are executing a comprehensive plan to improve auto insurance profitability, including
Other costs and expenses (5,646) (5,618) (4,546) broadly raising rates, reducing operating expenses and advertising, implementing underwriting restrictions in
underperforming states and executing claims operating actions to manage loss costs. In 2023, Allstate brand will exit
Restructuring and related charges (44) (145) (235)
traditional commercial insurance in five states. Additionally, starting in the fourth quarter of 2022, coverage to
Amortization of purchased intangibles (240) (241) (12)
transportation network companies will no longer be offered unless the contracts utilize telematics-based pricing.
Underwriting (loss) income $ (2,782) $ 1,785 $ 4,569
Catastrophe losses $ 3,112 $ 3,339 $ 2,811 Premium measures and statistics include PIF, new issued applications, average premiums and renewal ratio to
analyze our premium trends. Premiums written is the amount of premiums charged for policies issued during a fiscal
period. Premiums are considered earned and are included in the financial results on a pro-rata basis over the policy
Change in underwriting results from 2021 to 2022
period. The portion of premiums written applicable to the unexpired term of the policies is recorded as unearned
($ in millions)
premiums on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.
$8,000 3,455 Premiums written by brand and line of business
$4,000 $1,785 (21) For the years ended December 31,
447 Allstate Brand National General Allstate Protection
$— 29
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
$(4,000) (6,683) (220) (1,391) (183) $(2,782) Auto $ 25,946 $ 24,102 $ 24,103 $ 4,720 $ 3,763 $ 508 $ 30,666 $ 27,865 $ 24,611
$(8,000) Homeowners 9,936 8,717 8,012 1,812 1,772 388 11,748 10,489 8,400
2021 Premiums Other Incurred Catastrophe Catastrophe Non- Shelter-in- Expenses 2022 Other personal lines 2,096 2,001 1,889 153 155 76 2,249 2,156 1,965
earned revenue losses, losses, reserve catastrophe Place Commercial lines 917 848 792 207 — — 1,124 848 792
excluding excluding reestimates reserve Payback
Total premiums written $ 38,895 $ 35,668 $ 34,796 $ 6,892 $ 5,690 $ 972 $ 45,787 $ 41,358 $ 35,768
catastrophe reserve reestimates Expense
losses reestimates
Premiums earned by brand and line of business
For the years ended December 31,
Change in underwriting results from 2020 to 2021
Allstate Brand National General Allstate Protection
($ in millions)
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
Auto $ 25,286 $ 24,088 $ 24,115 $ 4,429 $ 3,535 $ 525 $ 29,715 $ 27,623 $ 24,640
$12,000 4,874 580
Homeowners 9,249 8,272 7,858 1,663 1,655 396 10,912 9,927 8,254
$8,000 $4,569 919 Other personal lines 2,016 1,925 1,841 143 152 78 2,159 2,077 1,919
$4,000 $1,785 Commercial lines 919 827 767 204 — — 1,123 827 767
$— (6,464) (227) (301) (283) (1,882) Total premiums earned $ 37,470 $ 35,112 $ 34,581 $ 6,439 $ 5,342 $ 999 $ 43,909 $ 40,454 $ 35,580
$(4,000)
Reconciliation of premiums written to premiums earned
2020 Premiums Other Incurred Catastrophe Catastrophe Non- Shelter-in- Expenses 2021
For the years ended December 31,
earned revenue losses, losses, reserve catastrophe Place
excluding excluding reestimates reserve Payback ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
catastrophe reserve reestimates Expense Total premiums written $ 45,787 $ 41,358 $ 35,768
losses reestimates Increase in unearned premiums (1,776) (1,143) (205)
Other (102) 239 17
Total premiums earned $ 43,909 $ 40,454 $ 35,580
146 2022 Annual Report
147 www.allstate.comAllstate Protection Allstate Protection
Allstate Protection Segment Underwriting income (loss) by brand and by line of business
For the years ended December 31,
Allstate Brand National General Allstate Protection
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
Auto (1) $ (2,846) $ 1,208 $ 3,404 $ (168) $ 54 $ 40 $ (3,014) $ 1,262 $ 3,444
Homeowners (2) (3) 701 411 798 (20) (92) 26 681 319 824
Other personal lines (4) (85) 216 255 (3) 17 9 (88) 233 264
Private passenger auto, homeowners, and other personal lines insurance products are offered to consumers
Commercial lines (478) (158) (36) 14 — — (464) (158) (36)
through exclusive and independent agents, directly through contact centers and online. The Encompass brand was
combined into National General beginning in the first quarter of 2021, and results prior to 2021 reflect Encompass Other business lines (5) 95 115 70 — — — 95 115 70
brand results only. Our strategy is to offer products that allow customers to interact with us when, where and how they Answer Financial — — — — — — 8 14 3
want with affordable, simple and connected protection products. Additional information on our strategy and outlook Total $ (2,613) $ 1,792 $ 4,491 $ (177) $ (21) $ 75 $ (2,782) $ 1,785 $ 4,569
can be found in Strategy and Segment Information.
(1) 2021 results include certain National General commercial lines insurance products.
Underwriting results (2)2021 results include National General packaged policies, which include auto, and commercial lines insurance products.
For the years ended December 31, (3)Includes lender-placed property.
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 (4)Other personal lines include renters, condominium, landlord and other personal lines products.
Premiums written $ 45,787 $ 41,358 $ 35,768 (5)Other business lines primarily represents revenue and direct operating expenses of Ivantage and distribution of non-proprietary
Premiums earned $ 43,909 $ 40,454 $ 35,580 life and annuity products. Ivantage, a general agency for Allstate exclusive agents, provides agents a solution for their customers
Other revenue 1,416 1,437 857 when coverage through Allstate brand underwritten products is not available.
Claims and claims expense (36,607) (28,760) (21,485) Underwriting loss was $2.78 billion in 2022 compared to underwriting income of $1.79 billion in 2021, primarily due
Shelter-in-Place Payback expense — (29) (948) to higher auto insurance losses and unfavorable reserve reestimates, both excluding catastrophes, partially offset by
Amortization of DAC (5,570) (5,313) (4,642) increased premiums earned. We are executing a comprehensive plan to improve auto insurance profitability, including
Other costs and expenses (5,646) (5,618) (4,546) broadly raising rates, reducing operating expenses and advertising, implementing underwriting restrictions in
underperforming states and executing claims operating actions to manage loss costs. In 2023, Allstate brand will exit
Restructuring and related charges (44) (145) (235)
traditional commercial insurance in five states. Additionally, starting in the fourth quarter of 2022, coverage to
Amortization of purchased intangibles (240) (241) (12)
transportation network companies will no longer be offered unless the contracts utilize telematics-based pricing.
Underwriting (loss) income $ (2,782) $ 1,785 $ 4,569
Catastrophe losses $ 3,112 $ 3,339 $ 2,811 Premium measures and statistics include PIF, new issued applications, average premiums and renewal ratio to
analyze our premium trends. Premiums written is the amount of premiums charged for policies issued during a fiscal
period. Premiums are considered earned and are included in the financial results on a pro-rata basis over the policy
Change in underwriting results from 2021 to 2022
period. The portion of premiums written applicable to the unexpired term of the policies is recorded as unearned
($ in millions)
premiums on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.
$8,000 3,455 Premiums written by brand and line of business
$4,000 $1,785 (21) For the years ended December 31,
447 Allstate Brand National General Allstate Protection
$— 29
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
$(4,000) (6,683) (220) (1,391) (183) $(2,782) Auto $ 25,946 $ 24,102 $ 24,103 $ 4,720 $ 3,763 $ 508 $ 30,666 $ 27,865 $ 24,611
$(8,000) Homeowners 9,936 8,717 8,012 1,812 1,772 388 11,748 10,489 8,400
2021 Premiums Other Incurred Catastrophe Catastrophe Non- Shelter-in- Expenses 2022 Other personal lines 2,096 2,001 1,889 153 155 76 2,249 2,156 1,965
earned revenue losses, losses, reserve catastrophe Place Commercial lines 917 848 792 207 — — 1,124 848 792
excluding excluding reestimates reserve Payback
Total premiums written $ 38,895 $ 35,668 $ 34,796 $ 6,892 $ 5,690 $ 972 $ 45,787 $ 41,358 $ 35,768
catastrophe reserve reestimates Expense
losses reestimates
Premiums earned by brand and line of business
For the years ended December 31,
Change in underwriting results from 2020 to 2021
Allstate Brand National General Allstate Protection
($ in millions)
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
Auto $ 25,286 $ 24,088 $ 24,115 $ 4,429 $ 3,535 $ 525 $ 29,715 $ 27,623 $ 24,640
$12,000 4,874 580
Homeowners 9,249 8,272 7,858 1,663 1,655 396 10,912 9,927 8,254
$8,000 $4,569 919 Other personal lines 2,016 1,925 1,841 143 152 78 2,159 2,077 1,919
$4,000 $1,785 Commercial lines 919 827 767 204 — — 1,123 827 767
$— (6,464) (227) (301) (283) (1,882) Total premiums earned $ 37,470 $ 35,112 $ 34,581 $ 6,439 $ 5,342 $ 999 $ 43,909 $ 40,454 $ 35,580
$(4,000)
Reconciliation of premiums written to premiums earned
2020 Premiums Other Incurred Catastrophe Catastrophe Non- Shelter-in- Expenses 2021
For the years ended December 31,
earned revenue losses, losses, reserve catastrophe Place
excluding excluding reestimates reserve Payback ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
catastrophe reserve reestimates Expense Total premiums written $ 45,787 $ 41,358 $ 35,768
losses reestimates Increase in unearned premiums (1,776) (1,143) (205)
Other (102) 239 17
Total premiums earned $ 43,909 $ 40,454 $ 35,580
146 2022 Annual Report
147 www.allstate.comAllstate Protection Allstate Protection
Unearned premium balance by line of business Homeowners insurance premiums written increased 12.0% or $1.26 billion in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due
As of December 31, to the following factors:
($ in millions) 2022 2021 • Higher Allstate brand average premiums from • Policy growth is being reduced in states and lines of
Allstate brand: inflation in insured home replacement costs and business that are underperforming. Starting in the
Auto $ 7,039 $ 6,426 implemented rate increases, combined with policies fourth quarter of 2022, we no longer write new
Homeowners 5,495 4,825 in force growth. National General premiums and homeowners business in the state of California,
Other personal lines 1,151 1,078 policy growth negatively impacted as we focus on although we will offer continuing coverage to
improving underwriting margins to targeted levels existing customers. We also reduced homeowners
Commercial lines 314 315
through underwriting and rate actions new business in Florida. These actions have
Total Allstate brand 13,999 12,644
National General: • Increased new issued applications driven by growth negatively impacted premiums starting in the
in the independent agency channel in 2022 fourth quarter
Auto 2,016 1,764
compared to 2021
Homeowners 378 451
Other personal lines 317 306 Homeowners premium measures and statistics
Commercial lines 442 177 2022 2021 2020 2022 vs. 2021 2021 vs. 2020
Total National General 3,153 2,698 New issued applications (thousands)
Allstate Protection unearned premiums $ 17,152 $ 15,342 Allstate Protection by brand
Allstate brand 986 962 899 2.5 % 7.0 %
Policies in force by brand and by line of business National General 136 102 34 33.3 % NM
Allstate brand National General Allstate Protection Total new issued applications 1,122 1,064 933 5.5 % 14.0 %
PIF (thousands) 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 Allstate Protection by channel
Auto 21,658 21,972 21,809 4,376 3,944 451 26,034 25,916 22,260 Exclusive agency channel 826 840 810 (1.7) % 3.7 %
Homeowners 6,622 6,525 6,427 638 634 216 7,260 7,159 6,643 Direct channel 94 84 62 11.9 % 35.5 %
Other personal lines 4,636 4,578 4,459 300 288 71 4,936 4,866 4,530 Independent agency channel 202 140 61 44.3 % 129.5 %
Commercial lines 204 210 216 107 105 — 311 315 216 Total new issued applications 1,122 1,064 933 5.5 % 14.0 %
Total 33,120 33,285 32,911 5,421 4,971 738 38,541 38,256 33,649
Allstate brand average premium $ 1,614 $ 1,426 $ 1,328 13.2 % 7.4 %
Allstate brand renewal ratio (%) 86.8 87.1 87.5 (0.3) (0.4)
Auto insurance premiums written increased 10.1% or $2.80 billion in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to the
following factors:
Other personal lines premiums written increased 2022 Allstate brand commercial new issued
• Increase in average premiums driven by rate • Renewal ratio for Allstate brand in 2022 was 4.3% or $93 million in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily applications and net written premium, respectively.
increases. In the twelve months ended, comparable to 2021 due to increases in landlords, personal umbrella and Additionally, starting in the fourth quarter of 2022,
December 31, 2022, implemented rate increases of • PIF increased 0.5% or 118 thousand to 26,034 condominiums premiums for Allstate brand. Starting in coverage to transportation network companies will no
19.8% were taken for Allstate brand in 54 locations, thousand as of December 31, 2022 compared to the fourth quarter of 2022, we will no longer write longer be offered unless the contracts utilize
resulting in total Allstate brand insurance premium December 31, 2021 due to growth in National condominium new business in California and Florida. telematics-based pricing. This contributed to a decline
impact of 16.9% General Commercial lines premiums written increased in premiums in the fourth quarter.
• Rate increases of 13.7% were taken for National • Increased new issued applications driven by direct 32.5% or $276 million in 2022 compared to 2021, GAAP operating ratios include loss ratio, expense
General brand in 35 locations, resulting in total channel, including the acquisition of SafeAuto, and primarily due to higher miles driven and increased ratio and combined ratio to analyze our profitability
National General brand insurance premium impact growth in the independent agency channel average premium in our shared economy business in trends. Frequency and severity statistics are used to
of 10.0%, to improve underwriting results part due to higher rates. In 2023, Allstate brand will describe the trends in loss costs.
• The impact of the ongoing rate actions and
• Allstate expects to continue to pursue rate temporary reductions in advertising may have an exit traditional commercial insurance in five states.
increases for both Allstate and National General adverse effect on the renewal ratio, new issued These five states combined made up 47% and 36% of
brands into 2023 to improve auto insurance applications and future PIF growth
Combined ratios by line of business
profitability
For the years ended December 31,
Auto premium measures and statistics Loss ratio Expense ratio (1) Combined ratio
2022 2021 2020 2022 vs. 2021 2021 vs. 2020 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
New issued applications (thousands) Auto 87.2 70.5 57.5 22.9 24.9 28.5 110.1 95.4 86.0
Allstate Protection by brand Impact of Shelter-in-Place Payback expense — — — — 0.1 3.8 — 0.1 3.8
Allstate brand 3,644 3,616 3,467 0.8 % 4.3 % Homeowners 69.6 72.2 67.3 24.2 24.6 22.7 93.8 96.8 90.0
National General 2,677 2,057 60 30.1 % NM Other personal lines 79.7 62.9 58.7 24.4 25.9 27.5 104.1 88.8 86.2
Total new issued applications 6,321 5,673 3,527 11.4 % 60.8 % Commercial lines 120.7 97.5 82.4 20.6 21.6 22.3 141.3 119.1 104.7
Impact of Shelter-in-Place Payback expense — — — — — 0.5 — — 0.5
Allstate Protection by channel
Total 83.3 71.1 60.4 23.0 24.5 26.8 106.3 95.6 87.2
Exclusive agency channel 2,401 2,387 2,502 0.6 % (4.6) %
Impact of amortization of purchased intangibles 0.5 0.6 0.1 0.5 0.6 0.1
Direct channel 2,202 1,773 846 24.2 % 109.6 %
Impact of Shelter-in-Place Payback expense — — — — 0.1 2.7 — 0.1 2.7
Independent agency channel 1,718 1,513 179 13.5 % NM
Impact of restructuring and related charges — — — 0.1 0.4 0.7 0.1 0.4 0.7
Total new issued applications 6,321 5,673 3,527 11.4 % 60.8 %
Impact of Allstate Special Payment plan bad
Allstate brand average premium $ 659 $ 605 $ 617 8.9 % (1.9) % debt expense — — — — — 0.2 — — 0.2
Allstate brand renewal ratio (%) 87.0 87.0 87.5 — (0.5)
(1) Other revenue is deducted from operating costs and expenses in the expense ratio calculation.
148 2022 Annual Report
149 www.allstate.comAllstate Protection Allstate Protection
Unearned premium balance by line of business Homeowners insurance premiums written increased 12.0% or $1.26 billion in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due
As of December 31, to the following factors:
($ in millions) 2022 2021 • Higher Allstate brand average premiums from • Policy growth is being reduced in states and lines of
Allstate brand: inflation in insured home replacement costs and business that are underperforming. Starting in the
Auto $ 7,039 $ 6,426 implemented rate increases, combined with policies fourth quarter of 2022, we no longer write new
Homeowners 5,495 4,825 in force growth. National General premiums and homeowners business in the state of California,
Other personal lines 1,151 1,078 policy growth negatively impacted as we focus on although we will offer continuing coverage to
improving underwriting margins to targeted levels existing customers. We also reduced homeowners
Commercial lines 314 315
through underwriting and rate actions new business in Florida. These actions have
Total Allstate brand 13,999 12,644
National General: • Increased new issued applications driven by growth negatively impacted premiums starting in the
in the independent agency channel in 2022 fourth quarter
Auto 2,016 1,764
compared to 2021
Homeowners 378 451
Other personal lines 317 306 Homeowners premium measures and statistics
Commercial lines 442 177 2022 2021 2020 2022 vs. 2021 2021 vs. 2020
Total National General 3,153 2,698 New issued applications (thousands)
Allstate Protection unearned premiums $ 17,152 $ 15,342 Allstate Protection by brand
Allstate brand 986 962 899 2.5 % 7.0 %
Policies in force by brand and by line of business National General 136 102 34 33.3 % NM
Allstate brand National General Allstate Protection Total new issued applications 1,122 1,064 933 5.5 % 14.0 %
PIF (thousands) 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 Allstate Protection by channel
Auto 21,658 21,972 21,809 4,376 3,944 451 26,034 25,916 22,260 Exclusive agency channel 826 840 810 (1.7) % 3.7 %
Homeowners 6,622 6,525 6,427 638 634 216 7,260 7,159 6,643 Direct channel 94 84 62 11.9 % 35.5 %
Other personal lines 4,636 4,578 4,459 300 288 71 4,936 4,866 4,530 Independent agency channel 202 140 61 44.3 % 129.5 %
Commercial lines 204 210 216 107 105 — 311 315 216 Total new issued applications 1,122 1,064 933 5.5 % 14.0 %
Total 33,120 33,285 32,911 5,421 4,971 738 38,541 38,256 33,649
Allstate brand average premium $ 1,614 $ 1,426 $ 1,328 13.2 % 7.4 %
Allstate brand renewal ratio (%) 86.8 87.1 87.5 (0.3) (0.4)
Auto insurance premiums written increased 10.1% or $2.80 billion in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to the
following factors:
Other personal lines premiums written increased 2022 Allstate brand commercial new issued
• Increase in average premiums driven by rate • Renewal ratio for Allstate brand in 2022 was 4.3% or $93 million in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily applications and net written premium, respectively.
increases. In the twelve months ended, comparable to 2021 due to increases in landlords, personal umbrella and Additionally, starting in the fourth quarter of 2022,
December 31, 2022, implemented rate increases of • PIF increased 0.5% or 118 thousand to 26,034 condominiums premiums for Allstate brand. Starting in coverage to transportation network companies will no
19.8% were taken for Allstate brand in 54 locations, thousand as of December 31, 2022 compared to the fourth quarter of 2022, we will no longer write longer be offered unless the contracts utilize
resulting in total Allstate brand insurance premium December 31, 2021 due to growth in National condominium new business in California and Florida. telematics-based pricing. This contributed to a decline
impact of 16.9% General Commercial lines premiums written increased in premiums in the fourth quarter.
• Rate increases of 13.7% were taken for National • Increased new issued applications driven by direct 32.5% or $276 million in 2022 compared to 2021, GAAP operating ratios include loss ratio, expense
General brand in 35 locations, resulting in total channel, including the acquisition of SafeAuto, and primarily due to higher miles driven and increased ratio and combined ratio to analyze our profitability
National General brand insurance premium impact growth in the independent agency channel average premium in our shared economy business in trends. Frequency and severity statistics are used to
of 10.0%, to improve underwriting results part due to higher rates. In 2023, Allstate brand will describe the trends in loss costs.
• The impact of the ongoing rate actions and
• Allstate expects to continue to pursue rate temporary reductions in advertising may have an exit traditional commercial insurance in five states.
increases for both Allstate and National General adverse effect on the renewal ratio, new issued These five states combined made up 47% and 36% of
brands into 2023 to improve auto insurance applications and future PIF growth
Combined ratios by line of business
profitability
For the years ended December 31,
Auto premium measures and statistics Loss ratio Expense ratio (1) Combined ratio
2022 2021 2020 2022 vs. 2021 2021 vs. 2020 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
New issued applications (thousands) Auto 87.2 70.5 57.5 22.9 24.9 28.5 110.1 95.4 86.0
Allstate Protection by brand Impact of Shelter-in-Place Payback expense — — — — 0.1 3.8 — 0.1 3.8
Allstate brand 3,644 3,616 3,467 0.8 % 4.3 % Homeowners 69.6 72.2 67.3 24.2 24.6 22.7 93.8 96.8 90.0
National General 2,677 2,057 60 30.1 % NM Other personal lines 79.7 62.9 58.7 24.4 25.9 27.5 104.1 88.8 86.2
Total new issued applications 6,321 5,673 3,527 11.4 % 60.8 % Commercial lines 120.7 97.5 82.4 20.6 21.6 22.3 141.3 119.1 104.7
Impact of Shelter-in-Place Payback expense — — — — — 0.5 — — 0.5
Allstate Protection by channel
Total 83.3 71.1 60.4 23.0 24.5 26.8 106.3 95.6 87.2
Exclusive agency channel 2,401 2,387 2,502 0.6 % (4.6) %
Impact of amortization of purchased intangibles 0.5 0.6 0.1 0.5 0.6 0.1
Direct channel 2,202 1,773 846 24.2 % 109.6 %
Impact of Shelter-in-Place Payback expense — — — — 0.1 2.7 — 0.1 2.7
Independent agency channel 1,718 1,513 179 13.5 % NM
Impact of restructuring and related charges — — — 0.1 0.4 0.7 0.1 0.4 0.7
Total new issued applications 6,321 5,673 3,527 11.4 % 60.8 %
Impact of Allstate Special Payment plan bad
Allstate brand average premium $ 659 $ 605 $ 617 8.9 % (1.9) % debt expense — — — — — 0.2 — — 0.2
Allstate brand renewal ratio (%) 87.0 87.0 87.5 — (0.5)
(1) Other revenue is deducted from operating costs and expenses in the expense ratio calculation.
148 2022 Annual Report
149 www.allstate.comAllstate Protection Allstate Protection
Loss ratios by line of business report year 2021. The increase is due to recent data we are exiting, and higher auto severity, partially offset
For the years ended December 31, and updated assumptions related to more severe by increased premiums earned.
accidents, increased claims with attorney
Effect of catastrophe Catastrophe losses decreased 6.8% or $227
losses included in representation, litigation costs, higher medical
million in 2022 compared to 2021. Catastrophe losses
Effect of catastrophe Effect of prior year prior year reserve consumption and inflation.
Loss ratio losses reserve reestimates reestimates (1) in 2022 included gross losses of $1.13 billion and net
2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 Homeowners loss ratio decreased 2.6 points in losses of $843 million related to Hurricane Ian and
2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to lower Winter Storm Elliott. Approximately 75% of Hurricane
Auto 87.2 70.5 57.5 1.7 1.7 1.2 4.0 0.5 (0.4) (0.2) (0.1) (0.1)
catastrophe losses and increased premiums earned, Ian net estimated losses relate to auto coverages. Auto
Homeowners 69.6 72.2 67.3 21.1 26.3 27.9 1.8 (1.5) (5.3) 0.8 (1.7) (5.1)
partially offset by higher severity. policyholders generally have coverage for physical
Other personal lines 79.7 62.9 58.7 12.3 11.0 10.4 (1.5) (5.1) (3.5) 0.1 (0.5) (2.0)
damage due to flood if they have purchased optional
Commercial lines 120.7 97.5 82.4 2.5 2.9 3.5 24.2 14.4 4.7 (0.1) 0.4 0.2 Allstate brand homeowners frequency and severity auto comprehensive coverage. Homeowners policies
Total 83.3 71.1 60.4 7.1 8.3 7.9 3.6 — (1.6) — (0.5) (1.4) statistics (excluding catastrophe losses) specifically exclude coverage for losses caused by
(% change year-over-year) flood.
(1) 2020 includes approximately $495 million of favorable reserve reestimates related to the PG&E Corporation and Southern
For the year ended December 31, 2022
California Edison subrogation settlements. Reinsurance recoveries in 2021 related to the
Gross claim frequency (2.9) %
Nationwide Aggregate Reinsurance Program for
Auto underwriting results Paid claim severity 21.6
aggregate catastrophe losses occurring between April
For the periods ended
1, 2020 and December 31, 2020, which primarily
2022 2021 Gross claim frequency decreased in 2022
impacted homeowners prior year reserve reestimates.
($ in millions, except ratios) Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 compared to 2021 primarily due to a decline in the
Underwriting income (loss) (974) (1,315) (578) (147) (300) (159) 394 1,327 wind/hail and water perils. Paid claim severity We define a “catastrophe” as an event that
increased in 2022 compared to 2021 due to inflationary produces pre-tax losses before reinsurance in excess
Loss ratio 90.6 95.3 84.9 77.6 78.9 76.9 68.7 57.2
loss cost pressure driven by increases in labor and of $1 million and involves multiple first party
Effect of prior year non-catastrophe reserve reestimates 2.3 8.5 3.8 2.1 2.1 1.1 (0.4) (0.2)
materials costs and time to repair. Homeowner paid policyholders, or a winter weather event that produces
claim severity can be impacted by both the mix of a number of claims in excess of a preset, per-event
Frequency and severity statistics are provided to costs reflect the ongoing inflationary factors and
perils and the magnitude of specific losses paid during threshold of average claims in a specific area, occurring
describe the trends in loss patterns and are influenced supply chain shortages impacting used vehicle and
the quarter. within a certain amount of time following the event.
by: parts prices and labor rates. Delays in the receipt of
Catastrophes are caused by various natural events
third-party carrier claims also contributed to the Other personal lines loss ratio increased 16.8 points
• Supply chain disruptions and labor shortages including high winds, winter storms and freezes,
adverse development of claims reported in prior in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to higher
tornadoes, hailstorms, wildfires, tropical storms,
• Value of total losses due to higher used car prices years. Late reported claim frequency attributable to losses, excluding catastrophes, partially offset by
tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes and volcanoes. We
• Labor and part cost increases prior accident years also impacted reserve increased premiums earned.
are also exposed to man-made catastrophic events,
reestimates
• Changes in commuting activity Commercial lines loss ratio increased 23.2 points in such as certain types of terrorism, civil unrest, wildfires
• Driving behavior (e.g., speed, time of day) impacting Property damage gross claim frequency for 2022 compared to 2021 due to higher unfavorable prior or industrial accidents. The nature and level of
severity and mix of claim types Allstate brand increased 8.2% in 2022 compared to year reserve reestimates, excluding catastrophes, catastrophes in any period cannot be reliably
• Organizational and process changes impacting 2021 due to factors including: primarily in bodily injury coverage for both shared predicted.
claim opening and closing practices and shifts in • Increases in miles driven compared to 2021 economy and traditional segments with a large portion
timing, if any, can impact comparisons to prior of the traditional segment increase related to states
• While gross claim frequency has rebounded from
periods
the low in 2020, it is 13.2% below pre-pandemic Catastrophe losses by the type of event
The quarterly auto loss ratio has been more levels of 2019 For the years ended December 31,
variable over the last eight quarters due to these and Collision gross claim frequency for Allstate brand Number Number Number
additional factors discussed below increased 5.0% in 2022 compared to 2021. While gross ($ in millions) of events 2022 of events 2021 of events 2020
Auto loss ratio increased 16.7 points in 2022 claim frequency has rebounded from the low in 2020, it Hurricanes/tropical storms 2 $ 399 6 $ 742 9 $ 1,001
compared to 2021, primarily due to: is 9.2% below pre-pandemic levels of 2019. Tornadoes 4 192 3 107 3 43
Wind/hail 106 1,936 85 1,878 73 1,940
• Higher gross claim frequency in all coverages, as Property damage estimated report year 2022
Wildfires 9 52 5 269 17 300
miles driven has rebounded toward pre-pandemic incurred claim severity for Allstate brand, excluding
Freeze/other events 3 515 2 611 3 30
levels. While total frequency increased relative to Esurance and Canada, increased approximately 21%
the prior year, it remains below pre-pandemic levels compared to report year 2021. Prior year reserve reestimates 28 35 (503) (2)
Prior year aggregate reinsurance recoveries (10) (237) —
• Increased severity for most coverages, driven by Collision estimated report year 2022 incurred claim
Current year aggregate reinsurance recoveries — (66) —
inflationary pressures in both physical damage and severity for Allstate brand, excluding Esurance and
bodily injury claims. As loss cost pressure continued Canada, increased approximately 17% compared to Total catastrophe losses (1) 124 $ 3,112 101 $ 3,339 105 $ 2,811
throughout 2022, our estimates of the year-to-date report year 2021. (1) 2021 includes approximately $250 million of reinstatement premiums for the year ended December 31, 2021, related to the
report year incurred claim severity variance to prior
Nationwide Catastrophe Reinsurance Program, primarily due to Hurricane Ida.
full year increased, partially reflecting higher losses The increase in estimated report year 2022
from claims in prior quarters than initially expected incurred claim severity for both coverages is due to (2)2020 includes approximately $495 million of favorable reserve reestimates related to the PG&E Corporation and Southern
California Edison subrogation settlements.
rising inflationary factors and supply chain shortages
• Unfavorable prior year reserve reestimates,
impacting both repairable vehicles and total losses, Catastrophe management
excluding catastrophes, was $1.25 billion primarily in
including higher used car values, replacement part
both bodily injury and physical damage coverages. Historical catastrophe experience For the last ten our aggregate insurance exposure to catastrophe
costs and labor rates and length of time to claim
Increases in injury coverages reflect recent data and years, the average annual impact of catastrophes on losses in certain regions of the country that are subject
resolution.
updated assumptions related to severity with third- our loss ratio was 7.6 points, but it has varied from 4.9 to high levels of natural catastrophes by our
party bodily injury claims, increased claims with Bodily injury estimated report year 2022 incurred points to 9.6 points. The average annual impact of participation in various state facilities. For further
attorney representation, litigation costs and higher claim severity for Allstate brand, excluding Esurance catastrophes on the homeowners loss ratio for the last discussion of these facilities, see Note 15 of the
medical inflation. Increases in physical damage and Canada, increased approximately 14% compared to ten years was 24.2 points. Over time, we have limited consolidated financial statements. However, the
150 2022 Annual Report
151 www.allstate.comAllstate Protection Allstate Protection
Loss ratios by line of business report year 2021. The increase is due to recent data we are exiting, and higher auto severity, partially offset
For the years ended December 31, and updated assumptions related to more severe by increased premiums earned.
accidents, increased claims with attorney
Effect of catastrophe Catastrophe losses decreased 6.8% or $227
losses included in representation, litigation costs, higher medical
million in 2022 compared to 2021. Catastrophe losses
Effect of catastrophe Effect of prior year prior year reserve consumption and inflation.
Loss ratio losses reserve reestimates reestimates (1) in 2022 included gross losses of $1.13 billion and net
2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 Homeowners loss ratio decreased 2.6 points in losses of $843 million related to Hurricane Ian and
2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to lower Winter Storm Elliott. Approximately 75% of Hurricane
Auto 87.2 70.5 57.5 1.7 1.7 1.2 4.0 0.5 (0.4) (0.2) (0.1) (0.1)
catastrophe losses and increased premiums earned, Ian net estimated losses relate to auto coverages. Auto
Homeowners 69.6 72.2 67.3 21.1 26.3 27.9 1.8 (1.5) (5.3) 0.8 (1.7) (5.1)
partially offset by higher severity. policyholders generally have coverage for physical
Other personal lines 79.7 62.9 58.7 12.3 11.0 10.4 (1.5) (5.1) (3.5) 0.1 (0.5) (2.0)
damage due to flood if they have purchased optional
Commercial lines 120.7 97.5 82.4 2.5 2.9 3.5 24.2 14.4 4.7 (0.1) 0.4 0.2 Allstate brand homeowners frequency and severity auto comprehensive coverage. Homeowners policies
Total 83.3 71.1 60.4 7.1 8.3 7.9 3.6 — (1.6) — (0.5) (1.4) statistics (excluding catastrophe losses) specifically exclude coverage for losses caused by
(% change year-over-year) flood.
(1) 2020 includes approximately $495 million of favorable reserve reestimates related to the PG&E Corporation and Southern
For the year ended December 31, 2022
California Edison subrogation settlements. Reinsurance recoveries in 2021 related to the
Gross claim frequency (2.9) %
Nationwide Aggregate Reinsurance Program for
Auto underwriting results Paid claim severity 21.6
aggregate catastrophe losses occurring between April
For the periods ended
1, 2020 and December 31, 2020, which primarily
2022 2021 Gross claim frequency decreased in 2022
impacted homeowners prior year reserve reestimates.
($ in millions, except ratios) Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 compared to 2021 primarily due to a decline in the
Underwriting income (loss) (974) (1,315) (578) (147) (300) (159) 394 1,327 wind/hail and water perils. Paid claim severity We define a “catastrophe” as an event that
increased in 2022 compared to 2021 due to inflationary produces pre-tax losses before reinsurance in excess
Loss ratio 90.6 95.3 84.9 77.6 78.9 76.9 68.7 57.2
loss cost pressure driven by increases in labor and of $1 million and involves multiple first party
Effect of prior year non-catastrophe reserve reestimates 2.3 8.5 3.8 2.1 2.1 1.1 (0.4) (0.2)
materials costs and time to repair. Homeowner paid policyholders, or a winter weather event that produces
claim severity can be impacted by both the mix of a number of claims in excess of a preset, per-event
Frequency and severity statistics are provided to costs reflect the ongoing inflationary factors and
perils and the magnitude of specific losses paid during threshold of average claims in a specific area, occurring
describe the trends in loss patterns and are influenced supply chain shortages impacting used vehicle and
the quarter. within a certain amount of time following the event.
by: parts prices and labor rates. Delays in the receipt of
Catastrophes are caused by various natural events
third-party carrier claims also contributed to the Other personal lines loss ratio increased 16.8 points
• Supply chain disruptions and labor shortages including high winds, winter storms and freezes,
adverse development of claims reported in prior in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to higher
tornadoes, hailstorms, wildfires, tropical storms,
• Value of total losses due to higher used car prices years. Late reported claim frequency attributable to losses, excluding catastrophes, partially offset by
tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes and volcanoes. We
• Labor and part cost increases prior accident years also impacted reserve increased premiums earned.
are also exposed to man-made catastrophic events,
reestimates
• Changes in commuting activity Commercial lines loss ratio increased 23.2 points in such as certain types of terrorism, civil unrest, wildfires
• Driving behavior (e.g., speed, time of day) impacting Property damage gross claim frequency for 2022 compared to 2021 due to higher unfavorable prior or industrial accidents. The nature and level of
severity and mix of claim types Allstate brand increased 8.2% in 2022 compared to year reserve reestimates, excluding catastrophes, catastrophes in any period cannot be reliably
• Organizational and process changes impacting 2021 due to factors including: primarily in bodily injury coverage for both shared predicted.
claim opening and closing practices and shifts in • Increases in miles driven compared to 2021 economy and traditional segments with a large portion
timing, if any, can impact comparisons to prior of the traditional segment increase related to states
• While gross claim frequency has rebounded from
periods
the low in 2020, it is 13.2% below pre-pandemic Catastrophe losses by the type of event
The quarterly auto loss ratio has been more levels of 2019 For the years ended December 31,
variable over the last eight quarters due to these and Collision gross claim frequency for Allstate brand Number Number Number
additional factors discussed below increased 5.0% in 2022 compared to 2021. While gross ($ in millions) of events 2022 of events 2021 of events 2020
Auto loss ratio increased 16.7 points in 2022 claim frequency has rebounded from the low in 2020, it Hurricanes/tropical storms 2 $ 399 6 $ 742 9 $ 1,001
compared to 2021, primarily due to: is 9.2% below pre-pandemic levels of 2019. Tornadoes 4 192 3 107 3 43
Wind/hail 106 1,936 85 1,878 73 1,940
• Higher gross claim frequency in all coverages, as Property damage estimated report year 2022
Wildfires 9 52 5 269 17 300
miles driven has rebounded toward pre-pandemic incurred claim severity for Allstate brand, excluding
Freeze/other events 3 515 2 611 3 30
levels. While total frequency increased relative to Esurance and Canada, increased approximately 21%
the prior year, it remains below pre-pandemic levels compared to report year 2021. Prior year reserve reestimates 28 35 (503) (2)
Prior year aggregate reinsurance recoveries (10) (237) —
• Increased severity for most coverages, driven by Collision estimated report year 2022 incurred claim
Current year aggregate reinsurance recoveries — (66) —
inflationary pressures in both physical damage and severity for Allstate brand, excluding Esurance and
bodily injury claims. As loss cost pressure continued Canada, increased approximately 17% compared to Total catastrophe losses (1) 124 $ 3,112 101 $ 3,339 105 $ 2,811
throughout 2022, our estimates of the year-to-date report year 2021. (1) 2021 includes approximately $250 million of reinstatement premiums for the year ended December 31, 2021, related to the
report year incurred claim severity variance to prior
Nationwide Catastrophe Reinsurance Program, primarily due to Hurricane Ida.
full year increased, partially reflecting higher losses The increase in estimated report year 2022
from claims in prior quarters than initially expected incurred claim severity for both coverages is due to (2)2020 includes approximately $495 million of favorable reserve reestimates related to the PG&E Corporation and Southern
California Edison subrogation settlements.
rising inflationary factors and supply chain shortages
• Unfavorable prior year reserve reestimates,
impacting both repairable vehicles and total losses, Catastrophe management
excluding catastrophes, was $1.25 billion primarily in
including higher used car values, replacement part
both bodily injury and physical damage coverages. Historical catastrophe experience For the last ten our aggregate insurance exposure to catastrophe
costs and labor rates and length of time to claim
Increases in injury coverages reflect recent data and years, the average annual impact of catastrophes on losses in certain regions of the country that are subject
resolution.
updated assumptions related to severity with third- our loss ratio was 7.6 points, but it has varied from 4.9 to high levels of natural catastrophes by our
party bodily injury claims, increased claims with Bodily injury estimated report year 2022 incurred points to 9.6 points. The average annual impact of participation in various state facilities. For further
attorney representation, litigation costs and higher claim severity for Allstate brand, excluding Esurance catastrophes on the homeowners loss ratio for the last discussion of these facilities, see Note 15 of the
medical inflation. Increases in physical damage and Canada, increased approximately 14% compared to ten years was 24.2 points. Over time, we have limited consolidated financial statements. However, the
150 2022 Annual Report
151 www.allstate.comAllstate Protection Allstate Protection
impact of these actions may be diminished by the • We offer a homeowners policy available in 43 Fires following earthquakes Under a standard returns. However, we may maintain or opportunistically
growth in insured values, the effect of state insurance states, Allstate House and Home®, that provides homeowners policy we cover fire losses, including increase our presence in areas where adequate risk
laws and regulations and we may not be able to options of coverage for roof damage, including those caused by an earthquake. Actions taken related adjusted returns can be achieved.
maintain our current level of reinsurance or purchase graduated coverage and pricing based on roof to our risk of loss from fires following earthquakes
Catastrophe Reinsurance The total cost of our
new reinsurance protection in amounts we consider type and age. In 2022, premiums written totaled include restrictive underwriting guidelines in California
property catastrophe reinsurance programs, excluding
sufficient at acceptable prices. In addition, in various $5.60 billion or 47.7% of homeowners premiums for new business writings, purchasing reinsurance for
reinstatement premiums, during 2022 was $788 million
states we are required to participate in assigned risk written compared to $4.56 billion or 46.0% in 2021. Kentucky personal lines property risks, and purchasing
compared to $556 million during 2021. Catastrophe
plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting nationwide occurrence reinsurance, excluding Florida.
Hurricanes We consider the greatest areas of placement premiums are a reduction of premium with
associations that provide insurance coverage to
potential catastrophe losses due to hurricanes to be Wildfires Actions taken related to managing our approximately 72% related to homeowners. The
individuals or entities that otherwise are unable to
major metropolitan centers in counties along the risk of loss from wildfires include purchasing increases were driven by higher Nationwide and Florida
purchase such coverage from private insurers. Because
eastern and gulf coasts of the United States. The nationwide occurrence reinsurance, new and renewal program costs. A description of our current
of our participation in these and other state facilities
average premium on a property policy near these inspection programs to identify and remediate wildfire catastrophe reinsurance program appears in Note 11 of
such as wind pools, we may be exposed to losses that
coasts is generally greater than in other areas. risk as well as leveraging contemporary underwriting the consolidated financial statements.
surpass the capitalization of these facilities and to
However, average premiums are often not considered tools in select areas. While these programs are
assessments from these facilities. Expense ratio decreased 1.5 points in 2022
commensurate with the inherent risk of loss. In designed to mitigate risk, the exposure to wildfires still
compared to 2021, primarily due to higher earned
We have continued to take actions to maintain an addition, as explained in Note 15 of the consolidated exists. We continue to manage our exposure and seek
premium growth relative to fixed costs and lower
appropriate level of exposure to catastrophic events financial statements, in various states Allstate is appropriate returns for the risks we write.
advertising and restructuring costs, partially offset by
while continuing to meet the needs of our customers, subject to assessments from assigned risk plans,
To manage the exposure, we may implement higher operating costs, primarily due to employee-
including the following: reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting
further actions, similar to those already taken, in related costs.
associations providing insurance for wind related
• Continuing to limit or not offer new homeowners, geographies where we are not achieving appropriate
property losses.
manufactured home and landlord package policy
Impact of specific costs and expenses on the expense ratio
business in certain coastal geographies. We have addressed our risk of hurricane loss by,
Additionally, we: among other actions, purchasing reinsurance for For the years ended December 31,
– Wrote a limited number of homeowners specific states and on a countrywide basis for our ($ in millions, except ratios) 2022 2021 2020 2022 vs 2021 2021 vs 2020
policies in select areas of California from 2016 personal lines property insurance in areas most Amortization of DAC $ 5,570 $ 5,313 $ 4,642 $ 257 $ 671
to 2022, but have discontinued new exposed to hurricanes, limiting personal homeowners, Advertising expense 934 1,249 941 (315) 308
homeowners and condominium business in landlord package policy and manufactured home new Amortization of purchased intangibles 240 241 12 (1) 229
the state of California starting the fourth business writings in coastal areas in southern and Other costs and expenses, net of other revenue 3,296 2,952 2,688 344 264
quarter of 2022. eastern states, implementing tropical cyclone Restructuring and related charges 44 145 235 (101) (90)
deductibles where appropriate, and not offering
– Will continue to renew current policyholders Shelter-in-Place Payback expense — 29 948 (29) (919)
continuing coverage on certain policies in coastal
and allow replacement policies for existing Allstate Special Payment plan bad debt expense — (20) 60 20 (80)
counties in certain states. We continue to seek
customers who buy a new home or change appropriate returns for the risks we write. This may Total underwriting expenses $ 10,084 $ 9,909 $ 9,526 $ 175 $ 383
their residence to rental property.
require further actions, similar to those already taken,
– Write homeowners coverage through our in geographies where we are not getting appropriate Premiums earned $ 43,909 $ 40,454 $ 35,580 $ 3,455 $ 4,874
excess and surplus lines carrier, North Light returns. However, we may maintain or opportunistically
Specialty Insurance Company (“North Light”), increase our presence in areas where adequate risk Expense ratio
which includes earthquake coverage (other adjusted returns can be achieved.
Amortization of DAC 12.7 13.1 13.0 (0.4) 0.1
than fire following earthquakes) that is
currently ceded via quota share reinsurance. Earthquakes We do not offer earthquake coverage Advertising expense 2.2 3.1 2.6 (0.9) 0.5
in most states. We retain approximately 38,000 PIF Other costs and expenses 7.5 7.2 7.5 0.3 (0.3)
• Increased capacity in our brokerage platform for
with earthquake coverage, with the largest number of Subtotal 22.4 23.4 23.1 (1.0) 0.3
customers not offered an Allstate policy. As of
policies located in Kentucky, due to regulatory and Amortization of purchased intangibles 0.5 0.6 0.1 (0.1) 0.5
December 31, 2022, Ivantage had $1.99 billion non-
other reasons. We purchase reinsurance in Kentucky
proprietary premiums under management. Restructuring and related charges 0.1 0.4 0.7 (0.3) (0.3)
and enter into arrangements in many states to make
Shelter-in-Place Payback expense — 0.1 2.7 (0.1) (2.6)
• In certain states, we have been ceding wind earthquake coverage available through our brokerage
exposure related to insured property located in platform. Allstate Special Payment plan bad debt expense — — 0.2 — (0.2)
wind pool eligible areas. Total expense ratio 23.0 24.5 26.8 (1.5) (2.3)
We continue to have exposure to earthquake risk
• Starting in the second quarter of 2017, we began
on certain policies that do not specifically exclude Deferred acquisition costs We establish a DAC asset for costs that are related directly to the acquisition of new
writing a limited number of homeowners policies in
coverage for earthquake losses, including our auto or renewal insurance policies, principally agent remuneration and premium taxes. DAC is amortized to income over the
select areas of Florida and continue to support
policies, and to fires following earthquakes. Allstate period in which premiums are earned.
existing customers who replace their currently-
homeowner policyholders in California are offered
insured home with an acceptable property. coverage for damage caused by an earthquake DAC balance as of December 31 by product type
Encompass withdrew from property lines in Florida
through the California Earthquake Authority (“CEA”), a ($ in millions) 2022 2021
in 2009.
privately-financed, publicly-managed state agency Auto $ 1,114 $ 1,023
• Tropical cyclone deductibles are generally higher created to provide insurance coverage for earthquake Homeowners 786 700
than all peril deductibles and are in place for a damage. Allstate is subject to assessments from the Other personal lines 184 169
large portion of coastal insured properties. CEA under certain circumstances as explained in
Commercial lines 62 59
• Auto comprehensive damage coverage generally Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements. While
Total DAC $ 2,146 $ 1,951
includes coverage for flood-related loss. We have North Light writes property policies in California, which
additional catastrophe exposure, beyond the can include earthquake coverage, this coverage is
property lines, for auto customers who have 100% ceded via quota share reinsurance.
purchased comprehensive damage coverage.
152 2022 Annual Report
153 www.allstate.comAllstate Protection Allstate Protection
impact of these actions may be diminished by the • We offer a homeowners policy available in 43 Fires following earthquakes Under a standard returns. However, we may maintain or opportunistically
growth in insured values, the effect of state insurance states, Allstate House and Home®, that provides homeowners policy we cover fire losses, including increase our presence in areas where adequate risk
laws and regulations and we may not be able to options of coverage for roof damage, including those caused by an earthquake. Actions taken related adjusted returns can be achieved.
maintain our current level of reinsurance or purchase graduated coverage and pricing based on roof to our risk of loss from fires following earthquakes
Catastrophe Reinsurance The total cost of our
new reinsurance protection in amounts we consider type and age. In 2022, premiums written totaled include restrictive underwriting guidelines in California
property catastrophe reinsurance programs, excluding
sufficient at acceptable prices. In addition, in various $5.60 billion or 47.7% of homeowners premiums for new business writings, purchasing reinsurance for
reinstatement premiums, during 2022 was $788 million
states we are required to participate in assigned risk written compared to $4.56 billion or 46.0% in 2021. Kentucky personal lines property risks, and purchasing
compared to $556 million during 2021. Catastrophe
plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting nationwide occurrence reinsurance, excluding Florida.
Hurricanes We consider the greatest areas of placement premiums are a reduction of premium with
associations that provide insurance coverage to
potential catastrophe losses due to hurricanes to be Wildfires Actions taken related to managing our approximately 72% related to homeowners. The
individuals or entities that otherwise are unable to
major metropolitan centers in counties along the risk of loss from wildfires include purchasing increases were driven by higher Nationwide and Florida
purchase such coverage from private insurers. Because
eastern and gulf coasts of the United States. The nationwide occurrence reinsurance, new and renewal program costs. A description of our current
of our participation in these and other state facilities
average premium on a property policy near these inspection programs to identify and remediate wildfire catastrophe reinsurance program appears in Note 11 of
such as wind pools, we may be exposed to losses that
coasts is generally greater than in other areas. risk as well as leveraging contemporary underwriting the consolidated financial statements.
surpass the capitalization of these facilities and to
However, average premiums are often not considered tools in select areas. While these programs are
assessments from these facilities. Expense ratio decreased 1.5 points in 2022
commensurate with the inherent risk of loss. In designed to mitigate risk, the exposure to wildfires still
compared to 2021, primarily due to higher earned
We have continued to take actions to maintain an addition, as explained in Note 15 of the consolidated exists. We continue to manage our exposure and seek
premium growth relative to fixed costs and lower
appropriate level of exposure to catastrophic events financial statements, in various states Allstate is appropriate returns for the risks we write.
advertising and restructuring costs, partially offset by
while continuing to meet the needs of our customers, subject to assessments from assigned risk plans,
To manage the exposure, we may implement higher operating costs, primarily due to employee-
including the following: reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting
further actions, similar to those already taken, in related costs.
associations providing insurance for wind related
• Continuing to limit or not offer new homeowners, geographies where we are not achieving appropriate
property losses.
manufactured home and landlord package policy
Impact of specific costs and expenses on the expense ratio
business in certain coastal geographies. We have addressed our risk of hurricane loss by,
Additionally, we: among other actions, purchasing reinsurance for For the years ended December 31,
– Wrote a limited number of homeowners specific states and on a countrywide basis for our ($ in millions, except ratios) 2022 2021 2020 2022 vs 2021 2021 vs 2020
policies in select areas of California from 2016 personal lines property insurance in areas most Amortization of DAC $ 5,570 $ 5,313 $ 4,642 $ 257 $ 671
to 2022, but have discontinued new exposed to hurricanes, limiting personal homeowners, Advertising expense 934 1,249 941 (315) 308
homeowners and condominium business in landlord package policy and manufactured home new Amortization of purchased intangibles 240 241 12 (1) 229
the state of California starting the fourth business writings in coastal areas in southern and Other costs and expenses, net of other revenue 3,296 2,952 2,688 344 264
quarter of 2022. eastern states, implementing tropical cyclone Restructuring and related charges 44 145 235 (101) (90)
deductibles where appropriate, and not offering
– Will continue to renew current policyholders Shelter-in-Place Payback expense — 29 948 (29) (919)
continuing coverage on certain policies in coastal
and allow replacement policies for existing Allstate Special Payment plan bad debt expense — (20) 60 20 (80)
counties in certain states. We continue to seek
customers who buy a new home or change appropriate returns for the risks we write. This may Total underwriting expenses $ 10,084 $ 9,909 $ 9,526 $ 175 $ 383
their residence to rental property.
require further actions, similar to those already taken,
– Write homeowners coverage through our in geographies where we are not getting appropriate Premiums earned $ 43,909 $ 40,454 $ 35,580 $ 3,455 $ 4,874
excess and surplus lines carrier, North Light returns. However, we may maintain or opportunistically
Specialty Insurance Company (“North Light”), increase our presence in areas where adequate risk Expense ratio
which includes earthquake coverage (other adjusted returns can be achieved.
Amortization of DAC 12.7 13.1 13.0 (0.4) 0.1
than fire following earthquakes) that is
currently ceded via quota share reinsurance. Earthquakes We do not offer earthquake coverage Advertising expense 2.2 3.1 2.6 (0.9) 0.5
in most states. We retain approximately 38,000 PIF Other costs and expenses 7.5 7.2 7.5 0.3 (0.3)
• Increased capacity in our brokerage platform for
with earthquake coverage, with the largest number of Subtotal 22.4 23.4 23.1 (1.0) 0.3
customers not offered an Allstate policy. As of
policies located in Kentucky, due to regulatory and Amortization of purchased intangibles 0.5 0.6 0.1 (0.1) 0.5
December 31, 2022, Ivantage had $1.99 billion non-
other reasons. We purchase reinsurance in Kentucky
proprietary premiums under management. Restructuring and related charges 0.1 0.4 0.7 (0.3) (0.3)
and enter into arrangements in many states to make
Shelter-in-Place Payback expense — 0.1 2.7 (0.1) (2.6)
• In certain states, we have been ceding wind earthquake coverage available through our brokerage
exposure related to insured property located in platform. Allstate Special Payment plan bad debt expense — — 0.2 — (0.2)
wind pool eligible areas. Total expense ratio 23.0 24.5 26.8 (1.5) (2.3)
We continue to have exposure to earthquake risk
• Starting in the second quarter of 2017, we began
on certain policies that do not specifically exclude Deferred acquisition costs We establish a DAC asset for costs that are related directly to the acquisition of new
writing a limited number of homeowners policies in
coverage for earthquake losses, including our auto or renewal insurance policies, principally agent remuneration and premium taxes. DAC is amortized to income over the
select areas of Florida and continue to support
policies, and to fires following earthquakes. Allstate period in which premiums are earned.
existing customers who replace their currently-
homeowner policyholders in California are offered
insured home with an acceptable property. coverage for damage caused by an earthquake DAC balance as of December 31 by product type
Encompass withdrew from property lines in Florida
through the California Earthquake Authority (“CEA”), a ($ in millions) 2022 2021
in 2009.
privately-financed, publicly-managed state agency Auto $ 1,114 $ 1,023
• Tropical cyclone deductibles are generally higher created to provide insurance coverage for earthquake Homeowners 786 700
than all peril deductibles and are in place for a damage. Allstate is subject to assessments from the Other personal lines 184 169
large portion of coastal insured properties. CEA under certain circumstances as explained in
Commercial lines 62 59
• Auto comprehensive damage coverage generally Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements. While
Total DAC $ 2,146 $ 1,951
includes coverage for flood-related loss. We have North Light writes property policies in California, which
additional catastrophe exposure, beyond the can include earthquake coverage, this coverage is
property lines, for auto customers who have 100% ceded via quota share reinsurance.
purchased comprehensive damage coverage.
152 2022 Annual Report
153 www.allstate.comRun-off Property-Liability Run-off Property-Liability
Run-off Property-Liability Segment Reserves by type of exposure before and after the effects of reinsurance
($ in millions) December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
The Run-off Property-Liability segment includes results from property and casualty insurance coverage that
Direct excess commercial insurance
primarily relates to policies written during the 1960s through the mid-1980s. Our exposure to asbestos, environmental
Gross reserves $ 1,106 $ 1,050
and other run-off lines claims arises principally from direct excess commercial insurance, assumed reinsurance
coverage, direct primary commercial insurance and other businesses in run-off. Additional information on our strategy Reinsurance (385) (363)
and outlook can be found in Strategy and Segment Information. Net reserves 721 687
Assumed reinsurance coverage
Underwriting results
Gross reserves 618 617
For the years ended December 31,
Reinsurance (56) (56)
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Net reserves 562 561
Claims and claims expense
Direct primary commercial insurance
Asbestos claims $ (34) $ (63) $ (78)
Gross reserves 148 168
Environmental claims (56) (40) (44)
Reinsurance (62) (75)
Other run-off lines (35) (13) (19)
Net reserves 86 93
Total claims and claims expense (125) (116) (141)
Other run-off business
Operating costs and expenses (4) (4) (3)
Gross reserves 1 1
Underwriting loss $ (129) $ (120) $ (144)
Reinsurance — —
Net reserves 1 1
Underwriting losses in 2022 and 2021 primarily related to our annual reserve review using established industry and
Unallocated loss adjustment expenses
actuarial best practices. The annual review resulted in unfavorable reserve reestimates totaling $118 million and
$111 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively. The reserve reestimates are included as part of claims and claims expense. Gross reserves 82 80
Reinsurance (1) (1)
Reserve reestimates in 2022 primarily related to new reported information and defense costs for asbestos and
Net reserves 81 79
higher than expected reported losses for environmental and other run-off exposures. Reserve reestimates in 2021
Total
primarily related to new reported information for asbestos and environmental and higher than expected reported
Gross reserves 1,955 1,916
losses for environmental and other run-off exposures.
Reinsurance (504) (495)
We believe that our reserves are appropriately established based on available facts, laws, regulations, and
Net reserves $ 1,451 $ 1,421
assessments of other pertinent factors and characteristics of exposure (e.g., claim activity, potential liability,
jurisdiction, products versus non-products exposure) presented by individual policyholders, assuming no change in the
Percentage of gross and ceded reserves by case and IBNR
legal, legislative or economic environment. However, as we progress with the resolution of disputed claims in the
December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
courts and arbitrations and with negotiations and settlements, our reported losses may be more variable.
Case IBNR Case IBNR
Reserves for asbestos, environmental and other run-off claims before and after the effects of reinsurance Direct excess commercial insurance
($ in millions) December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 Gross reserves (1) 58 % 42 % 61 % 39 %
Asbestos claims Ceded (2) 63 37 67 33
Gross reserves $ 1,190 $ 1,210 Assumed reinsurance coverage
Reinsurance (379) (382) Gross reserves 31 69 33 67
Net reserves 811 828 Ceded 33 67 38 62
Environmental claims Direct primary commercial insurance
Gross reserves 328 273 Gross reserves 57 43 53 47
Reinsurance (61) (47) Ceded 81 19 71 29
Net reserves 267 226
(1) Approximately 64% of gross case reserves as of December 31, 2022 are subject to settlement agreements.
Other run-off claims
(2)Approximately 70% of ceded case reserves as of December 31, 2022 are subject to settlement agreements.
Gross reserves 437 433
Reinsurance (64) (66)
Net reserves 373 367
Total
Gross reserves 1,955 1,916
Reinsurance (504) (495)
Net reserves $ 1,451 $ 1,421
154 2022 Annual Report
155 www.allstate.comRun-off Property-Liability Run-off Property-Liability
Run-off Property-Liability Segment Reserves by type of exposure before and after the effects of reinsurance
($ in millions) December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
The Run-off Property-Liability segment includes results from property and casualty insurance coverage that
Direct excess commercial insurance
primarily relates to policies written during the 1960s through the mid-1980s. Our exposure to asbestos, environmental
Gross reserves $ 1,106 $ 1,050
and other run-off lines claims arises principally from direct excess commercial insurance, assumed reinsurance
coverage, direct primary commercial insurance and other businesses in run-off. Additional information on our strategy Reinsurance (385) (363)
and outlook can be found in Strategy and Segment Information. Net reserves 721 687
Assumed reinsurance coverage
Underwriting results
Gross reserves 618 617
For the years ended December 31,
Reinsurance (56) (56)
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Net reserves 562 561
Claims and claims expense
Direct primary commercial insurance
Asbestos claims $ (34) $ (63) $ (78)
Gross reserves 148 168
Environmental claims (56) (40) (44)
Reinsurance (62) (75)
Other run-off lines (35) (13) (19)
Net reserves 86 93
Total claims and claims expense (125) (116) (141)
Other run-off business
Operating costs and expenses (4) (4) (3)
Gross reserves 1 1
Underwriting loss $ (129) $ (120) $ (144)
Reinsurance — —
Net reserves 1 1
Underwriting losses in 2022 and 2021 primarily related to our annual reserve review using established industry and
Unallocated loss adjustment expenses
actuarial best practices. The annual review resulted in unfavorable reserve reestimates totaling $118 million and
$111 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively. The reserve reestimates are included as part of claims and claims expense. Gross reserves 82 80
Reinsurance (1) (1)
Reserve reestimates in 2022 primarily related to new reported information and defense costs for asbestos and
Net reserves 81 79
higher than expected reported losses for environmental and other run-off exposures. Reserve reestimates in 2021
Total
primarily related to new reported information for asbestos and environmental and higher than expected reported
Gross reserves 1,955 1,916
losses for environmental and other run-off exposures.
Reinsurance (504) (495)
We believe that our reserves are appropriately established based on available facts, laws, regulations, and
Net reserves $ 1,451 $ 1,421
assessments of other pertinent factors and characteristics of exposure (e.g., claim activity, potential liability,
jurisdiction, products versus non-products exposure) presented by individual policyholders, assuming no change in the
Percentage of gross and ceded reserves by case and IBNR
legal, legislative or economic environment. However, as we progress with the resolution of disputed claims in the
December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
courts and arbitrations and with negotiations and settlements, our reported losses may be more variable.
Case IBNR Case IBNR
Reserves for asbestos, environmental and other run-off claims before and after the effects of reinsurance Direct excess commercial insurance
($ in millions) December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 Gross reserves (1) 58 % 42 % 61 % 39 %
Asbestos claims Ceded (2) 63 37 67 33
Gross reserves $ 1,190 $ 1,210 Assumed reinsurance coverage
Reinsurance (379) (382) Gross reserves 31 69 33 67
Net reserves 811 828 Ceded 33 67 38 62
Environmental claims Direct primary commercial insurance
Gross reserves 328 273 Gross reserves 57 43 53 47
Reinsurance (61) (47) Ceded 81 19 71 29
Net reserves 267 226
(1) Approximately 64% of gross case reserves as of December 31, 2022 are subject to settlement agreements.
Other run-off claims
(2)Approximately 70% of ceded case reserves as of December 31, 2022 are subject to settlement agreements.
Gross reserves 437 433
Reinsurance (64) (66)
Net reserves 373 367
Total
Gross reserves 1,955 1,916
Reinsurance (504) (495)
Net reserves $ 1,451 $ 1,421
154 2022 Annual Report
155 www.allstate.comRun-off Property-Liability Protection Services
Gross payments from case reserves by type of exposure Protection Services Segment
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2022 2021
Direct excess commercial insurance
Gross (1) $ 82 $ 91
Ceded (2) (35) (39)
Protection Services comprise Allstate Protection Plans, Allstate Dealer Services, Allstate Roadside, Arity and Allstate
Assumed reinsurance coverage
Identity Protection. Protection Services include National General’s LeadCloud and Transparent.ly’s results within Arity
Gross 35 43
starting in the first quarter of 2021. These businesses provide marketing and integration platforms connecting data
Ceded (3) (4) buyers and sellers. Results prior to 2021 reflect historical Arity results only.
Direct primary commercial insurance
In 2022, Protection Services represented 77.3% of total PIF and 5.6% of premiums written. We offer consumer
Gross 7 7
product protection plans, finance and insurance products (including vehicle service contracts, guaranteed asset
Ceded (1) (2)
protection waivers, road hazard tire and wheel and paintless dent repair protection), roadside assistance, device and
Other run-off business
mobile data collection services and analytic solutions using automotive telematics information and identity protection.
Gross — 1 Additional information on our strategy and outlook can be found in Strategy and Segment Information.
Ceded — —
Summarized financial information
(1) In 2022, 88% of payments related to settlement agreements. For the years ended December 31,
(2) In 2022, 94% of payments related to settlement agreements. ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Total net reserves as of December 31, 2022, Reinsurance collections were $37 million and $39 Premiums written $ 2,699 $ 2,642 $ 1,890
included $765 million or 53% of estimated IBNR million for 2022 and 2021, respectively. The allowance
reserves compared to $733 million or 52% of estimated for uncollectible reinsurance recoverables was $58 Revenues
IBNR reserves as of December 31, 2021. million and $63 million as of December 31, 2022 and Premiums $ 1,995 $ 1,764 $ 1,493
2021, respectively. The allowance represents 10.0% and Other revenue 347 354 208
Total gross payments were $125 million and $142
11.0% of the related reinsurance recoverable balances Intersegment insurance premiums and service fees (1) 149 175 147
million for 2022 and 2021, respectively. Payments
as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
mainly related to settlement agreements reached with Net investment income 48 43 44
several insureds on large claims, mainly asbestos
Costs and expenses
related losses, where the scope of liability has been
Claims and claims expense (532) (458) (386)
agreed upon. The claims associated with these
Amortization of DAC (928) (795) (658)
settlement agreements are expected to be
substantially paid out over the next several years as Operating costs and expenses (874) (837) (651)
qualified claims are submitted by these insureds. Restructuring and related charges (2) (14) (3)
Income tax expense on operations (35) (52) (41)
Less: noncontrolling interest (1) 1 —
Adjusted net income $ 169 $ 179 $ 153
Allstate Protection Plans $ 150 $ 142 $ 137
Allstate Dealer Services 35 34 29
Allstate Roadside 7 7 12
Arity (11) 3 (11)
Allstate Identity Protection (12) (7) (14)
Adjusted net income $ 169 $ 179 $ 153
Allstate Protection Plans 138,726 141,073 128,982
Allstate Dealer Services 3,865 3,956 4,042
Allstate Roadside 531 525 548
Allstate Identity Protection 3,112 2,802 2,700
Policies in force as of December 31 (in thousands) 146,234 148,356 136,272
(1) Primarily related to Arity and Allstate Roadside and are eliminated in our consolidated financial statements.
Adjusted net income decreased 5.6% or $10 million PIF decreased 1.4% or 2 million in 2022 compared
in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily driven by higher to 2021 due to a decline in Allstate Protection Plans .
technology expenses at Allstate Identity Protection
Other revenue decreased 2.0% or $7 million in 2022
and lower revenue at Arity.
compared to 2021, primarily due to lower revenue at
Premiums written increased 2.2% or $57 million in Arity, partially offset by growth at Allstate Identity
2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to international Protection.
growth at Allstate Protection Plans, partially offset by a
Intersegment premiums and service fees
decrease in sales at Allstate Dealer Services.
decreased 14.9% to $149 million in 2022 compared to
2021, driven by decreased Arity device sales due to a
156 2022 Annual Report
157 www.allstate.comRun-off Property-Liability Protection Services
Gross payments from case reserves by type of exposure Protection Services Segment
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2022 2021
Direct excess commercial insurance
Gross (1) $ 82 $ 91
Ceded (2) (35) (39)
Protection Services comprise Allstate Protection Plans, Allstate Dealer Services, Allstate Roadside, Arity and Allstate
Assumed reinsurance coverage
Identity Protection. Protection Services include National General’s LeadCloud and Transparent.ly’s results within Arity
Gross 35 43
starting in the first quarter of 2021. These businesses provide marketing and integration platforms connecting data
Ceded (3) (4) buyers and sellers. Results prior to 2021 reflect historical Arity results only.
Direct primary commercial insurance
In 2022, Protection Services represented 77.3% of total PIF and 5.6% of premiums written. We offer consumer
Gross 7 7
product protection plans, finance and insurance products (including vehicle service contracts, guaranteed asset
Ceded (1) (2)
protection waivers, road hazard tire and wheel and paintless dent repair protection), roadside assistance, device and
Other run-off business
mobile data collection services and analytic solutions using automotive telematics information and identity protection.
Gross — 1 Additional information on our strategy and outlook can be found in Strategy and Segment Information.
Ceded — —
Summarized financial information
(1) In 2022, 88% of payments related to settlement agreements. For the years ended December 31,
(2) In 2022, 94% of payments related to settlement agreements. ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Total net reserves as of December 31, 2022, Reinsurance collections were $37 million and $39 Premiums written $ 2,699 $ 2,642 $ 1,890
included $765 million or 53% of estimated IBNR million for 2022 and 2021, respectively. The allowance
reserves compared to $733 million or 52% of estimated for uncollectible reinsurance recoverables was $58 Revenues
IBNR reserves as of December 31, 2021. million and $63 million as of December 31, 2022 and Premiums $ 1,995 $ 1,764 $ 1,493
2021, respectively. The allowance represents 10.0% and Other revenue 347 354 208
Total gross payments were $125 million and $142
11.0% of the related reinsurance recoverable balances Intersegment insurance premiums and service fees (1) 149 175 147
million for 2022 and 2021, respectively. Payments
as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
mainly related to settlement agreements reached with Net investment income 48 43 44
several insureds on large claims, mainly asbestos
Costs and expenses
related losses, where the scope of liability has been
Claims and claims expense (532) (458) (386)
agreed upon. The claims associated with these
Amortization of DAC (928) (795) (658)
settlement agreements are expected to be
substantially paid out over the next several years as Operating costs and expenses (874) (837) (651)
qualified claims are submitted by these insureds. Restructuring and related charges (2) (14) (3)
Income tax expense on operations (35) (52) (41)
Less: noncontrolling interest (1) 1 —
Adjusted net income $ 169 $ 179 $ 153
Allstate Protection Plans $ 150 $ 142 $ 137
Allstate Dealer Services 35 34 29
Allstate Roadside 7 7 12
Arity (11) 3 (11)
Allstate Identity Protection (12) (7) (14)
Adjusted net income $ 169 $ 179 $ 153
Allstate Protection Plans 138,726 141,073 128,982
Allstate Dealer Services 3,865 3,956 4,042
Allstate Roadside 531 525 548
Allstate Identity Protection 3,112 2,802 2,700
Policies in force as of December 31 (in thousands) 146,234 148,356 136,272
(1) Primarily related to Arity and Allstate Roadside and are eliminated in our consolidated financial statements.
Adjusted net income decreased 5.6% or $10 million PIF decreased 1.4% or 2 million in 2022 compared
in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily driven by higher to 2021 due to a decline in Allstate Protection Plans .
technology expenses at Allstate Identity Protection
Other revenue decreased 2.0% or $7 million in 2022
and lower revenue at Arity.
compared to 2021, primarily due to lower revenue at
Premiums written increased 2.2% or $57 million in Arity, partially offset by growth at Allstate Identity
2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to international Protection.
growth at Allstate Protection Plans, partially offset by a
Intersegment premiums and service fees
decrease in sales at Allstate Dealer Services.
decreased 14.9% to $149 million in 2022 compared to
2021, driven by decreased Arity device sales due to a
156 2022 Annual Report
157 www.allstate.comProtection Services Property and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves
shift from devices to a mobile program for the Operating costs and expenses increased 4.4% or Property and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves
Drivewise® offering. $37 million in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to
investments in technology and geographic and Underwriting results are significantly influenced by The facts and circumstances leading to
Claims and claims expense increased 16.2% or $74 product expansion at Allstate Protection Plans and estimates of claims and claims expense reserves. For a reestimates of reserves relate to changes in claim
million in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to investments in technology at Allstate Identity description of our reserve process, see Note 9 of the activity and revisions to the development factors used
higher levels of claims at Allstate Protection Plans Protection, partially offset by lower expenses at Arity. consolidated financial statements. Further, for a to predict how losses are likely to develop from the end
driven by growth in the business and higher severity at description of our reserving policies and the potential of a reporting period until all claims have been paid.
both Allstate Protection Plans and Allstate Roadside. Restructuring and related charges decreased $12 variability in our reserve estimates, see the Application Reestimates occur when actual losses differ from those
million in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to a of Critical Accounting Estimates section of the MD&A. predicted by the estimated development factors used
Amortization of DAC increased 16.7% or $133 million
facility closure at Allstate Identity Protection and These reserves are an estimate of amounts necessary in prior reserve estimates.
in 2022 compared to 2021, driven by business growth
accelerated lease costs at Allstate Protection Plans in to settle all outstanding claims, including IBNR claims,
at Allstate Protection Plans and Allstate Dealer 2021. as of the reporting date. We believe the net loss reserves exposures are
Services. appropriately established based on available facts,
laws and regulations.
Total reserves, net of recoverables (“net reserves”), as of December 31
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Allstate Protection $ 26,876 $ 22,124 $ 19,136
Run-off Property-Liability 1,451 1,421 1,408
Total Property-Liability 28,327 23,545 20,544
Protection Services 38 36 33
Total net reserves $ 28,365 $ 23,581 $ 20,577
Reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense $ 37,541 $ 33,060 $ 27,610
Less: reinsurance and indemnification recoverables (1) 9,176 9,479 7,033
Total net reserves $ 28,365 $ 23,581 $ 20,577
(1) Includes $6.66 billion, $6.64 billion and $5.61 billion of unpaid indemnification recoverables related to the Michigan Catastrophic
Claims Association (“MCCA”) as of December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
Impact of reserve reestimates by brand on combined ratio and net income applicable to common shareholders(1) (2)
2022 2021 2020
Effect on Effect on Effect on
Reserve combined Reserve combined Reserve combined
($ in millions, except ratios) reestimates ratio reestimates ratio reestimates ratio
Allstate Protection $ 1,619 3.6 $ 8 — $ (576) (1.6)
Run-off Property-Liability 125 0.3 116 0.3 141 0.4
Total Property-Liability 1,744 3.9 124 0.3 (435) (1.2)
Protection Services (3) — (2) — (1) —
Total $ 1,741 $ 122 $ (436)
Reserve reestimates, after-tax $ 1,375 $ 96 $ (344)
Consolidated net (loss) income applicable
to common shareholders $ (1,416) $ 1,485 $ 5,461
Reserve reestimates as a % impact on
consolidated net (loss) income applicable to
common shareholders (97.1) % (6.5) % 6.3 %
Property-Liability prior year reserve
reestimates included in catastrophe losses $ 18 $ (202) $ (503)
(1) Favorable reserve reestimates are shown in parentheses.
(2)Ratios are calculated using property and casualty premiums earned.
158 2022 Annual Report
159 www.allstate.comProtection Services Property and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves
shift from devices to a mobile program for the Operating costs and expenses increased 4.4% or Property and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves
Drivewise® offering. $37 million in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to
investments in technology and geographic and Underwriting results are significantly influenced by The facts and circumstances leading to
Claims and claims expense increased 16.2% or $74 product expansion at Allstate Protection Plans and estimates of claims and claims expense reserves. For a reestimates of reserves relate to changes in claim
million in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to investments in technology at Allstate Identity description of our reserve process, see Note 9 of the activity and revisions to the development factors used
higher levels of claims at Allstate Protection Plans Protection, partially offset by lower expenses at Arity. consolidated financial statements. Further, for a to predict how losses are likely to develop from the end
driven by growth in the business and higher severity at description of our reserving policies and the potential of a reporting period until all claims have been paid.
both Allstate Protection Plans and Allstate Roadside. Restructuring and related charges decreased $12 variability in our reserve estimates, see the Application Reestimates occur when actual losses differ from those
million in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to a of Critical Accounting Estimates section of the MD&A. predicted by the estimated development factors used
Amortization of DAC increased 16.7% or $133 million
facility closure at Allstate Identity Protection and These reserves are an estimate of amounts necessary in prior reserve estimates.
in 2022 compared to 2021, driven by business growth
accelerated lease costs at Allstate Protection Plans in to settle all outstanding claims, including IBNR claims,
at Allstate Protection Plans and Allstate Dealer 2021. as of the reporting date. We believe the net loss reserves exposures are
Services. appropriately established based on available facts,
laws and regulations.
Total reserves, net of recoverables (“net reserves”), as of December 31
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Allstate Protection $ 26,876 $ 22,124 $ 19,136
Run-off Property-Liability 1,451 1,421 1,408
Total Property-Liability 28,327 23,545 20,544
Protection Services 38 36 33
Total net reserves $ 28,365 $ 23,581 $ 20,577
Reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense $ 37,541 $ 33,060 $ 27,610
Less: reinsurance and indemnification recoverables (1) 9,176 9,479 7,033
Total net reserves $ 28,365 $ 23,581 $ 20,577
(1) Includes $6.66 billion, $6.64 billion and $5.61 billion of unpaid indemnification recoverables related to the Michigan Catastrophic
Claims Association (“MCCA”) as of December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
Impact of reserve reestimates by brand on combined ratio and net income applicable to common shareholders(1) (2)
2022 2021 2020
Effect on Effect on Effect on
Reserve combined Reserve combined Reserve combined
($ in millions, except ratios) reestimates ratio reestimates ratio reestimates ratio
Allstate Protection $ 1,619 3.6 $ 8 — $ (576) (1.6)
Run-off Property-Liability 125 0.3 116 0.3 141 0.4
Total Property-Liability 1,744 3.9 124 0.3 (435) (1.2)
Protection Services (3) — (2) — (1) —
Total $ 1,741 $ 122 $ (436)
Reserve reestimates, after-tax $ 1,375 $ 96 $ (344)
Consolidated net (loss) income applicable
to common shareholders $ (1,416) $ 1,485 $ 5,461
Reserve reestimates as a % impact on
consolidated net (loss) income applicable to
common shareholders (97.1) % (6.5) % 6.3 %
Property-Liability prior year reserve
reestimates included in catastrophe losses $ 18 $ (202) $ (503)
(1) Favorable reserve reestimates are shown in parentheses.
(2)Ratios are calculated using property and casualty premiums earned.
158 2022 Annual Report
159 www.allstate.comProperty and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves Property and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves
The following tables reflect the accident years to which the reestimates shown above are applicable. Favorable date current report year claim severity increased in the portion of the traditional segment increase related to
reserve reestimates are shown in parentheses. fourth quarter for bodily injury and physical damage states where the Company will no longer be selling
coverages to reflect continued increases in loss costs. new business.
Prior year reserve reestimates
($ in millions) Personal auto insurance claim frequency has Favorable results for homeowners insurance in
2022 2017 & prior 2018 2019 2020 2021 Total continued to increase, but remains below 2019 levels. 2021 were primarily due to catastrophe reserve
Allstate Protection $ 27 $ 161 $ 294 $ 345 $ 792 $ 1,619 Late reported claim frequency attributable to prior reestimates driven by estimated recoveries related to
Run-off Property-Liability 125 — — — — 125 accident years also impacted reserve reestimates. our aggregate reinsurance coverage and wildfire
subrogation settlements. Unfavorable reserve
Total Property-Liability 152 161 294 345 792 1,744 Unfavorable reserve reestimates for commercial
reestimates for auto and commercial lines in 2021
Protection Services — — — — (3) (3) are primarily from auto injury coverages for both
primarily related to auto liability coverages.
Total $ 152 $ 161 $ 294 $ 345 $ 789 $ 1,741 shared economy and traditional segments with a large
Run-off Property-Liability
2021 2016 & prior 2017 2018 2019 2020 Total
Allstate Protection $ (130) $ 100 $ (67) $ 231 $ (126) $ 8 We conduct an annual review in the third quarter of each year to evaluate and establish asbestos, environmental
Run-off Property-Liability 116 — — — — 116 and other run-off reserves. Reserves are recorded in the reporting period in which they are determined. Using
Total Property-Liability (14) 100 (67) 231 (126) 124 established industry and actuarial best practices and assuming no change in the regulatory or economic environment,
Protection Services — — — — (2) (2) this detailed and comprehensive methodology determines reserves based on assessments of the characteristics of
exposure (e.g. claim activity, potential liability, jurisdiction, products versus non-products exposure) presented by
Total $ (14) $ 100 $ (67) $ 231 $ (128) $ 122
policyholders.
2020 2015 & prior 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total
Run-off Property-Liability net reserve reestimates
Allstate Protection $ (56) $ 42 $ (199) $ (353) $ (10) $ (576)
2022 2021 2020
Run-off Property-Liability 141 — — — — 141
January 1 Reserve January 1 Reserve January 1 Reserve
Total Property-Liability 85 42 (199) (353) (10) (435)
($ in millions) reserves reestimates reserves reestimates reserves reestimates
Protection Services — — — — (1) (1)
Asbestos claims $ 828 $ 34 $ 827 $ 63 $ 810 $ 78
Total $ 85 $ 42 $ (199) $ (353) $ (11) $ (436)
Environmental claims 226 56 206 40 179 44
Other run-off lines 367 35 375 13 376 19
Allstate Protection
Total $ 1,421 $ 125 $ 1,408 $ 116 $ 1,365 $ 141
The tables below show Allstate Protection net reserves representing the estimated cost of outstanding claims as
Underwriting loss $ (129) $ (120) $ (144)
they were recorded at the beginning of years 2022, 2021, and 2020, and the effect of reestimates in each year.
Reserve reestimates in 2022 primarily related to Reserve reestimates in 2021 primarily related to
Net reserves by line
new reported information and defense costs for new reported information for asbestos and
January 1 reserves
asbestos and higher than expected reported losses for environmental and higher than expected reported
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
environmental and other run-off exposures. losses for environmental and other run-off exposures.
Auto (1) $ 16,078 $ 14,164 $ 14,728
Homeowners (1) 2,797 2,315 2,138 Reserves and claim activity before (Gross) and after (Net) the effects of reinsurance
Other personal lines 1,844 1,463 1,459 2022 2021 2020
Commercial lines and other (2) 1,405 1,194 1,071 ($ in millions, except ratios) Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net
Total Allstate Protection $ 22,124 $ 19,136 $ 19,396 Asbestos claims
Beginning reserves $ 1,210 $ 828 $ 1,204 $ 827 $ 1,172 $ 810
(1) 2022 includes a $944 million reclassification of reserves from homeowners to auto.
Incurred claims and claims expense 59 34 100 63 132 78
(2)2022 includes the unamortized fair value adjustment related to the acquisition of National General.
Claims and claims expense paid (79) (51) (94) (62) (100) (61)
Impact of reserve reestimates by line on combined ratio and underwriting income Ending reserves $ 1,190 $ 811 $ 1,210 $ 828 $ 1,204 $ 827
2022 2021 2020 Annual survival ratio 15.1 15.9 12.9 13.4 12.0 13.6
Effect on Effect on Effect on 3-year survival ratio 13.1 14.0 11.1 12.0 10.3 12.0
Reserve combined Reserve combined Reserve combined
($ in millions, except ratios) reestimates ratio reestimates ratio reestimates ratio
Environmental claims
Auto $ 1,185 2.7 $ 149 0.4 $ (107) (0.3)
Beginning reserves $ 273 $ 226 $ 249 $ 206 $ 219 $ 179
Homeowners 194 0.4 (153) (0.4) (439) (1.2)
Incurred claims and claims expense 79 56 50 40 49 44
Other personal lines (32) (0.1) (107) (0.3) (66) (0.2)
Claims and claims expense paid (24) (15) (26) (20) (19) (17)
Commercial lines 272 0.6 119 0.3 36 0.1
Ending reserves $ 328 $ 267 $ 273 $ 226 $ 249 $ 206
Total Allstate Protection $ 1,619 3.6 $ 8 — $ (576) (1.6)
Underwriting (loss) income $ (2,782) $ 1,785 $ 4,569 Annual survival ratio 13.7 17.8 10.5 11.3 13.1 12.1
Reserve reestimates as a % impact 3-year survival ratio 14.5 15.4 10.6 10.6 10.5 10.3
on underwriting (loss) income (58.2) % (0.4) % 12.6 %
Combined environmental and asbestos claims
Unfavorable reserve reestimates for personal auto inflation. Increases in physical damage reflect the
Annual survival ratio 14.7 16.3 12.4 12.9 12.2 13.2
are primarily from bodily injury and physical damage ongoing inflationary factors and supply chain
3-year survival ratio 13.3 14.3 11.0 11.7 10.3 11.6
coverages. Increases in injury coverages reflect recent shortages impacting used vehicle and parts prices,
Percentage of IBNR in ending reserves 55.9 % 0 54.8 % 0 50.3 %
data and updated assumptions related to severity of labor rates and length of claim resolution. Delays in the
third-party bodily injury claims, increased claims with receipt of claims, including third-party carrier claims
attorney representation, litigation costs, increased also contributed to the adverse development of claims
medical treatment utilization and higher medical reported in prior years. The estimate of the year-to-
160 2022 Annual Report
161 www.allstate.comProperty and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves Property and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves
The following tables reflect the accident years to which the reestimates shown above are applicable. Favorable date current report year claim severity increased in the portion of the traditional segment increase related to
reserve reestimates are shown in parentheses. fourth quarter for bodily injury and physical damage states where the Company will no longer be selling
coverages to reflect continued increases in loss costs. new business.
Prior year reserve reestimates
($ in millions) Personal auto insurance claim frequency has Favorable results for homeowners insurance in
2022 2017 & prior 2018 2019 2020 2021 Total continued to increase, but remains below 2019 levels. 2021 were primarily due to catastrophe reserve
Allstate Protection $ 27 $ 161 $ 294 $ 345 $ 792 $ 1,619 Late reported claim frequency attributable to prior reestimates driven by estimated recoveries related to
Run-off Property-Liability 125 — — — — 125 accident years also impacted reserve reestimates. our aggregate reinsurance coverage and wildfire
subrogation settlements. Unfavorable reserve
Total Property-Liability 152 161 294 345 792 1,744 Unfavorable reserve reestimates for commercial
reestimates for auto and commercial lines in 2021
Protection Services — — — — (3) (3) are primarily from auto injury coverages for both
primarily related to auto liability coverages.
Total $ 152 $ 161 $ 294 $ 345 $ 789 $ 1,741 shared economy and traditional segments with a large
Run-off Property-Liability
2021 2016 & prior 2017 2018 2019 2020 Total
Allstate Protection $ (130) $ 100 $ (67) $ 231 $ (126) $ 8 We conduct an annual review in the third quarter of each year to evaluate and establish asbestos, environmental
Run-off Property-Liability 116 — — — — 116 and other run-off reserves. Reserves are recorded in the reporting period in which they are determined. Using
Total Property-Liability (14) 100 (67) 231 (126) 124 established industry and actuarial best practices and assuming no change in the regulatory or economic environment,
Protection Services — — — — (2) (2) this detailed and comprehensive methodology determines reserves based on assessments of the characteristics of
exposure (e.g. claim activity, potential liability, jurisdiction, products versus non-products exposure) presented by
Total $ (14) $ 100 $ (67) $ 231 $ (128) $ 122
policyholders.
2020 2015 & prior 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total
Run-off Property-Liability net reserve reestimates
Allstate Protection $ (56) $ 42 $ (199) $ (353) $ (10) $ (576)
2022 2021 2020
Run-off Property-Liability 141 — — — — 141
January 1 Reserve January 1 Reserve January 1 Reserve
Total Property-Liability 85 42 (199) (353) (10) (435)
($ in millions) reserves reestimates reserves reestimates reserves reestimates
Protection Services — — — — (1) (1)
Asbestos claims $ 828 $ 34 $ 827 $ 63 $ 810 $ 78
Total $ 85 $ 42 $ (199) $ (353) $ (11) $ (436)
Environmental claims 226 56 206 40 179 44
Other run-off lines 367 35 375 13 376 19
Allstate Protection
Total $ 1,421 $ 125 $ 1,408 $ 116 $ 1,365 $ 141
The tables below show Allstate Protection net reserves representing the estimated cost of outstanding claims as
Underwriting loss $ (129) $ (120) $ (144)
they were recorded at the beginning of years 2022, 2021, and 2020, and the effect of reestimates in each year.
Reserve reestimates in 2022 primarily related to Reserve reestimates in 2021 primarily related to
Net reserves by line
new reported information and defense costs for new reported information for asbestos and
January 1 reserves
asbestos and higher than expected reported losses for environmental and higher than expected reported
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
environmental and other run-off exposures. losses for environmental and other run-off exposures.
Auto (1) $ 16,078 $ 14,164 $ 14,728
Homeowners (1) 2,797 2,315 2,138 Reserves and claim activity before (Gross) and after (Net) the effects of reinsurance
Other personal lines 1,844 1,463 1,459 2022 2021 2020
Commercial lines and other (2) 1,405 1,194 1,071 ($ in millions, except ratios) Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net
Total Allstate Protection $ 22,124 $ 19,136 $ 19,396 Asbestos claims
Beginning reserves $ 1,210 $ 828 $ 1,204 $ 827 $ 1,172 $ 810
(1) 2022 includes a $944 million reclassification of reserves from homeowners to auto.
Incurred claims and claims expense 59 34 100 63 132 78
(2)2022 includes the unamortized fair value adjustment related to the acquisition of National General.
Claims and claims expense paid (79) (51) (94) (62) (100) (61)
Impact of reserve reestimates by line on combined ratio and underwriting income Ending reserves $ 1,190 $ 811 $ 1,210 $ 828 $ 1,204 $ 827
2022 2021 2020 Annual survival ratio 15.1 15.9 12.9 13.4 12.0 13.6
Effect on Effect on Effect on 3-year survival ratio 13.1 14.0 11.1 12.0 10.3 12.0
Reserve combined Reserve combined Reserve combined
($ in millions, except ratios) reestimates ratio reestimates ratio reestimates ratio
Environmental claims
Auto $ 1,185 2.7 $ 149 0.4 $ (107) (0.3)
Beginning reserves $ 273 $ 226 $ 249 $ 206 $ 219 $ 179
Homeowners 194 0.4 (153) (0.4) (439) (1.2)
Incurred claims and claims expense 79 56 50 40 49 44
Other personal lines (32) (0.1) (107) (0.3) (66) (0.2)
Claims and claims expense paid (24) (15) (26) (20) (19) (17)
Commercial lines 272 0.6 119 0.3 36 0.1
Ending reserves $ 328 $ 267 $ 273 $ 226 $ 249 $ 206
Total Allstate Protection $ 1,619 3.6 $ 8 — $ (576) (1.6)
Underwriting (loss) income $ (2,782) $ 1,785 $ 4,569 Annual survival ratio 13.7 17.8 10.5 11.3 13.1 12.1
Reserve reestimates as a % impact 3-year survival ratio 14.5 15.4 10.6 10.6 10.5 10.3
on underwriting (loss) income (58.2) % (0.4) % 12.6 %
Combined environmental and asbestos claims
Unfavorable reserve reestimates for personal auto inflation. Increases in physical damage reflect the
Annual survival ratio 14.7 16.3 12.4 12.9 12.2 13.2
are primarily from bodily injury and physical damage ongoing inflationary factors and supply chain
3-year survival ratio 13.3 14.3 11.0 11.7 10.3 11.6
coverages. Increases in injury coverages reflect recent shortages impacting used vehicle and parts prices,
Percentage of IBNR in ending reserves 55.9 % 0 54.8 % 0 50.3 %
data and updated assumptions related to severity of labor rates and length of claim resolution. Delays in the
third-party bodily injury claims, increased claims with receipt of claims, including third-party carrier claims
attorney representation, litigation costs, increased also contributed to the adverse development of claims
medical treatment utilization and higher medical reported in prior years. The estimate of the year-to-
160 2022 Annual Report
161 www.allstate.comProperty and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves Property and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves
The survival ratio is calculated by taking our ending reserves divided by payments made during the year. This is a Reinsurance and indemnification recoverables, net of the allowance established for uncollectible amounts
commonly used but simplistic and imprecise approach to measuring the adequacy of asbestos and environmental
Reinsurance or
reserve levels. Many factors, such as mix of business, level of coverage provided and settlement procedures have A.M. Best indemnification
significant impacts on the amount of environmental and asbestos claims and claims expense reserves, claim payments S&P financial financial recoverables on paid and
and the resultant ratio. As payments result in corresponding reserve reductions, survival ratios can be expected to vary strength strength unpaid claims, net
over time. The asbestos and environmental net 3-year survival ratio in 2022 increased from 2021 due to lower claim ($ in millions) rating (1) rating (1) 2022 2021
payments associated with settlement agreements. Indemnification programs
State-based industry pool or facility programs
Net asbestos reserves by type of exposure and total reserve additions
MCCA (2) N/A N/A $ 6,722 $ 6,695
December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
New Jersey Property-Liability Insurance Guaranty
Net % of Net % of Net % of
Association (“PLIGA”) N/A N/A 330 371
($ in millions) reserves reserves reserves reserves reserves reserves
North Carolina Reinsurance Facility (“NCRF”) N/A N/A 292 279
Direct:
Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund (“FHCF”) N/A N/A 96 25
Primary $ 9 1 % $ 8 1 % $ 10 1 %
Other 7 7
Excess 257 32 275 33 291 35
Federal Government - NFIP N/A N/A 145 34
Total direct 266 33 283 34 301 36
Subtotal 7,592 7,411
Assumed reinsurance 97 12 104 13 122 15
IBNR 448 55 441 53 404 49
Catastrophe reinsurance recoverables
Total net reserves $ 811 100 % $ 828 100 % $ 827 100 %
Sanders RE II LTD. N/A N/A 85 303
Total reserve additions $ 34 $ 63 $ 78
Swiss Reinsurance America Corporation AA- A+ 64 88
IBNR net reserves increased $7 million as of Reinsurance and indemnification programs We Renaissance Reinsurance Limited N/A A+ 56 106
December 31, 2022 compared to December 31, 2021. utilize reinsurance to reduce exposure to catastrophe Other 558 873
IBNR provides for reserve development of known risk and manage capital, and to support the required Subtotal 763 1,370
claims and future reporting of additional unknown statutory surplus and the insurance financial strength
claims from current policyholders and ceding ratings of certain subsidiaries such as Castle Key Other reinsurance recoverables, net (3)
companies. Insurance Company (“CKIC”) and Allstate New Jersey
Aleka Insurance Inc. N/A N/A 183 187
Insurance Company (“ANJ”). We purchase significant
Lloyd’s of London (“Lloyd’s”) A+ A 180 165
reinsurance to manage our aggregate countrywide
Pacific Valley Insurance Company, Inc. N/A N/A 88 35
exposure to an acceptable level. The price and terms
Swiss Reinsurance America Corporation AA- A+ 67 75
of reinsurance and the credit quality of the reinsurer
are considered in the purchase process. We have also Other, including allowance for credit losses 575 611
purchased reinsurance to mitigate exposures in our Subtotal 1,093 1,073
long-tail liability lines, including environmental, Total Property-Liability 9,448 9,854
asbestos and other run-off lines as well as our Protection Services 19 16
commercial lines, including shared economy. We also Total $ 9,467 $ 9,870
participate in various indemnification mechanisms,
including state-based industry pool or facility programs (1) N/A reflects no S&P Global Ratings (“S&P”) or A.M. Best ratings available.
mandating participation by insurers offering certain (2)As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, MCCA includes $62 million and $51 million of reinsurance recoverable on paid claims,
coverage in their state and the federal government respectively, and $6.66 billion and $6.64 billion of reinsurance recoverable on unpaid claims, respectively.
National Flood Insurance Program (“NFIP”). See Note 11 (3)Other reinsurance recoverables primarily relate to commercial lines, including shared economy, as well as asbestos, environmental
of the consolidated financial statements for additional and other liability exposures.
details on these programs.
Reinsurance and indemnification recoverables uncollectible reinsurance is also an inherently uncertain
include an estimate of the amount of insurance claims process involving estimates. Changes in estimates
and claims expense reserves that are ceded under the could result in additional changes to the Consolidated
terms of the agreements, including IBNR unpaid losses. Statements of Operations.
We calculate our ceded reinsurance and
Indemnification recoverables are considered
indemnification estimates based on the terms of each
collectible based on the industry pool and facility
applicable agreement, including an estimate of how
enabling legislation and the Company has not had any
IBNR losses will ultimately be ceded under the
credit losses related to these programs and we do not
agreement. We also consider other limitations and
anticipate losses in the foreseeable future. We also
coverage exclusions under our agreements.
have not experienced credit losses on our catastrophe
Accordingly, our estimate of recoverables is subject to
reinsurance programs, which include highly rated
similar risks and uncertainties as our estimate of
reinsurers.
reserves claims and claims expense. We believe the
recoverables are appropriately established; however, The allowance for uncollectible reinsurance relates
as our underlying reserves continue to develop, the to other reinsurance programs primarily related to our
amount ultimately recoverable may vary from amounts Run-off Property-Liability segment. The allowance was
currently recorded. We regularly evaluate the $62 million and $66 million as of December 31, 2022
reinsurers and the respective amounts of our and 2021, respectively.
reinsurance recoverables, and a provision for
The allowance is based upon our ongoing review of
uncollectible reinsurance recoverables is recorded, if
amounts outstanding, length of collection periods,
needed. The establishment of reinsurance
changes in reinsurer credit standing, and other
recoverables and the related allowance for
162 2022 Annual Report
163 www.allstate.comProperty and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves Property and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves
The survival ratio is calculated by taking our ending reserves divided by payments made during the year. This is a Reinsurance and indemnification recoverables, net of the allowance established for uncollectible amounts
commonly used but simplistic and imprecise approach to measuring the adequacy of asbestos and environmental
Reinsurance or
reserve levels. Many factors, such as mix of business, level of coverage provided and settlement procedures have A.M. Best indemnification
significant impacts on the amount of environmental and asbestos claims and claims expense reserves, claim payments S&P financial financial recoverables on paid and
and the resultant ratio. As payments result in corresponding reserve reductions, survival ratios can be expected to vary strength strength unpaid claims, net
over time. The asbestos and environmental net 3-year survival ratio in 2022 increased from 2021 due to lower claim ($ in millions) rating (1) rating (1) 2022 2021
payments associated with settlement agreements. Indemnification programs
State-based industry pool or facility programs
Net asbestos reserves by type of exposure and total reserve additions
MCCA (2) N/A N/A $ 6,722 $ 6,695
December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020
New Jersey Property-Liability Insurance Guaranty
Net % of Net % of Net % of
Association (“PLIGA”) N/A N/A 330 371
($ in millions) reserves reserves reserves reserves reserves reserves
North Carolina Reinsurance Facility (“NCRF”) N/A N/A 292 279
Direct:
Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund (“FHCF”) N/A N/A 96 25
Primary $ 9 1 % $ 8 1 % $ 10 1 %
Other 7 7
Excess 257 32 275 33 291 35
Federal Government - NFIP N/A N/A 145 34
Total direct 266 33 283 34 301 36
Subtotal 7,592 7,411
Assumed reinsurance 97 12 104 13 122 15
IBNR 448 55 441 53 404 49
Catastrophe reinsurance recoverables
Total net reserves $ 811 100 % $ 828 100 % $ 827 100 %
Sanders RE II LTD. N/A N/A 85 303
Total reserve additions $ 34 $ 63 $ 78
Swiss Reinsurance America Corporation AA- A+ 64 88
IBNR net reserves increased $7 million as of Reinsurance and indemnification programs We Renaissance Reinsurance Limited N/A A+ 56 106
December 31, 2022 compared to December 31, 2021. utilize reinsurance to reduce exposure to catastrophe Other 558 873
IBNR provides for reserve development of known risk and manage capital, and to support the required Subtotal 763 1,370
claims and future reporting of additional unknown statutory surplus and the insurance financial strength
claims from current policyholders and ceding ratings of certain subsidiaries such as Castle Key Other reinsurance recoverables, net (3)
companies. Insurance Company (“CKIC”) and Allstate New Jersey
Aleka Insurance Inc. N/A N/A 183 187
Insurance Company (“ANJ”). We purchase significant
Lloyd’s of London (“Lloyd’s”) A+ A 180 165
reinsurance to manage our aggregate countrywide
Pacific Valley Insurance Company, Inc. N/A N/A 88 35
exposure to an acceptable level. The price and terms
Swiss Reinsurance America Corporation AA- A+ 67 75
of reinsurance and the credit quality of the reinsurer
are considered in the purchase process. We have also Other, including allowance for credit losses 575 611
purchased reinsurance to mitigate exposures in our Subtotal 1,093 1,073
long-tail liability lines, including environmental, Total Property-Liability 9,448 9,854
asbestos and other run-off lines as well as our Protection Services 19 16
commercial lines, including shared economy. We also Total $ 9,467 $ 9,870
participate in various indemnification mechanisms,
including state-based industry pool or facility programs (1) N/A reflects no S&P Global Ratings (“S&P”) or A.M. Best ratings available.
mandating participation by insurers offering certain (2)As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, MCCA includes $62 million and $51 million of reinsurance recoverable on paid claims,
coverage in their state and the federal government respectively, and $6.66 billion and $6.64 billion of reinsurance recoverable on unpaid claims, respectively.
National Flood Insurance Program (“NFIP”). See Note 11 (3)Other reinsurance recoverables primarily relate to commercial lines, including shared economy, as well as asbestos, environmental
of the consolidated financial statements for additional and other liability exposures.
details on these programs.
Reinsurance and indemnification recoverables uncollectible reinsurance is also an inherently uncertain
include an estimate of the amount of insurance claims process involving estimates. Changes in estimates
and claims expense reserves that are ceded under the could result in additional changes to the Consolidated
terms of the agreements, including IBNR unpaid losses. Statements of Operations.
We calculate our ceded reinsurance and
Indemnification recoverables are considered
indemnification estimates based on the terms of each
collectible based on the industry pool and facility
applicable agreement, including an estimate of how
enabling legislation and the Company has not had any
IBNR losses will ultimately be ceded under the
credit losses related to these programs and we do not
agreement. We also consider other limitations and
anticipate losses in the foreseeable future. We also
coverage exclusions under our agreements.
have not experienced credit losses on our catastrophe
Accordingly, our estimate of recoverables is subject to
reinsurance programs, which include highly rated
similar risks and uncertainties as our estimate of
reinsurers.
reserves claims and claims expense. We believe the
recoverables are appropriately established; however, The allowance for uncollectible reinsurance relates
as our underlying reserves continue to develop, the to other reinsurance programs primarily related to our
amount ultimately recoverable may vary from amounts Run-off Property-Liability segment. The allowance was
currently recorded. We regularly evaluate the $62 million and $66 million as of December 31, 2022
reinsurers and the respective amounts of our and 2021, respectively.
reinsurance recoverables, and a provision for
The allowance is based upon our ongoing review of
uncollectible reinsurance recoverables is recorded, if
amounts outstanding, length of collection periods,
needed. The establishment of reinsurance
changes in reinsurer credit standing, and other
recoverables and the related allowance for
162 2022 Annual Report
163 www.allstate.comProperty and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves Property and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves
relevant factors. In addition, in the ordinary course of recoverable from them and future claims ceded to Michigan personal injury protection reserve and claim activity before and after the effects of MCCA recoverables
business, we may become involved in coverage them to be considered a higher risk. There has also For the years ended December 31,
disputes with certain of our reinsurers that may been consolidation activity in the industry, which
2022 2021 2020
ultimately result in lawsuits and arbitrations brought by causes reinsurance risk across the industry to be
($ in millions) Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net
or against such reinsurers to determine the parties’ concentrated among fewer companies.
Beginning reserves $ 7,387 $ 747 $ 6,282 $ 670 $ 6,106 $ 647
rights and obligations under the various reinsurance
See Note 2 of the consolidated financial National General acquisition as of January 4, 2021 — — 566 31 — —
agreements. We employ dedicated specialists to
manage reinsurance collections and disputes. We also statements for a description of the methodology Incurred claims and claims expense-current year 451 175 398 132 312 98
utilized to calculate the allowance for reinsurance
consider recent developments in commutation activity Incurred claims and claims expense-prior years (159) (15) 403 59 107 65
recoverables.
between reinsurers and cedents, and recent trends in Claims and claims expense paid-current year (1) (26) (26) (35) (35) (47) (42)
arbitration and litigation outcomes in disputes For further details related to our reinsurance and Claims and claims expense paid-prior years (1) (260) (146) (227) (110) (196) (98)
between cedents and reinsurers in seeking to indemnification recoverables, see the Regulation Ending reserves (2) $ 7,393 $ 735 $ 7,387 $ 747 $ 6,282 $ 670
maximize our reinsurance recoveries. section in Form 10-K Part I and Note 11 of the
consolidated financial statements. (1) Paid claims and claims expenses reported in the table for the current and prior years, recovered from the MCCA totaled $114
Adverse developments in the insurance industry
million, $117 million and $103 million in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
have led to a decline in the financial strength of some
(2)Gross reserves for the year ended December 31, 2022, comprise 76% case reserves and 24% IBNR. Gross reserves for the year
of our reinsurance carriers, causing amounts
ended December 31, 2021, comprise 74% case reserves and 26% IBNR. Gross reserves for the year ended December 31, 2020,
comprise 82% case reserves and 18% IBNR. The MCCA does not require member companies to report ultimate case reserves.
Effects of reinsurance ceded and indemnification programs on our premiums earned and claims and claims
expense Pending MCCA claims differ from most personal lines insurance pending claims as other personal lines policies
For the years ended December 31, incurred claims settle in shorter periods due to having a coverage limit. MCCA claims can be outstanding for a
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 claimant’s lifetime, as there is no contractual limitation. Many of these injuries are catastrophic in nature, resulting in
Allstate Protection - Premiums serious permanent disabilities that require attendant and residential care for periods that may span decades. A
Indemnification programs significant portion of the ultimate incurred claim reserves and the recoverables can be attributed to a small number of
State-based industry pool or facility programs catastrophic claims that occurred more than five years ago and continue to pay lifetime benefits.
NCRF $ 300 $ 310 $ 63
Pending, new and closed claims for Michigan personal injury protection exposure
MCCA 18 20 61
For the years ended December 31,
PLIGA 7 7 7
Number of claims (1) 2022 2021 2020
FHCF 24 15 9
Pending, beginning of year 5,421 4,857 4,942
Other — 420 34
Federal Government - NFIP 319 350 261 National General acquisition as of January 4, 2021 — 525 —
Catastrophe reinsurance 764 541 416 New 8,059 8,616 5,896
Other reinsurance programs 261 60 110 Closed (7,912) (8,577) (5,981)
Total Allstate Protection 1,693 1,723 961 Pending, end of year 5,568 5,421 4,857
Run-off Property-Liability — — —
(1) Total claims includes those covered and not covered by the MCCA indemnification.
Total Property-Liability 1,693 1,723 961
Protection Services 176 181 180 As of December 31, 2022, approximately 1,450 of Catastrophe reinsurance Our catastrophe
Total effect on premiums earned $ 1,869 $ 1,904 $ 1,141 our pending claims have been reported to the MCCA, reinsurance program is designed to address our
of which approximately 75% represents claims that exposure to catastrophes nationwide, utilizing our risk
Allstate Protection - Claims occurred more than 5 years ago. There are 52 Allstate management methodology. Our program is designed
Indemnification programs brand claims with reserves in excess of $15 million as of to provide reinsurance protection for catastrophes
State-based industry pool or facility programs December 31, 2022, which comprise approximately 20% resulting from multiple perils including hurricanes,
MCCA $ 116 $ 611 $ 256 of the gross ending reserves in the table above. As a windstorms, hail, tornadoes, earthquakes, wildfires,
NCRF 294 279 47 result, significant developments with a single claimant and fires following earthquakes. These reinsurance
can result in volatility in prior year incurred claims. agreements are part of our catastrophe management
PLIGA (24) — (40)
strategy, which is intended to provide our shareholders
FHCF 74 13 15 Intercompany reinsurance We enter into certain
an acceptable return on the risks assumed in our
Other — 359 16 intercompany insurance and reinsurance transactions
property business, while providing protection to our
Federal Government - NFIP 435 267 87 in order to maintain underwriting control and manage
customers.
Catastrophe reinsurance 298 1,719 (105) (1) insurance risk among various legal entities. These
Other reinsurance programs 261 85 88 reinsurance agreements have been approved by the We anticipate completing the placement of our
Total Allstate Protection 1,454 3,333 364 appropriate regulatory authorities. All significant 2023 nationwide catastrophe reinsurance program in
Run-off Property-Liability 50 60 75 intercompany transactions have been eliminated in the first half of 2023. For further details of the existing
Total Property-Liability 1,504 3,393 439 consolidation. 2022 program, see Note 11 of the consolidated financial
Protection Services 96 91 91 statements.
Total effect on claims and claims expense $ 1,600 $ 3,484 $ 530
(1) Reflects reestimates in claims and claims expense related subrogation settlements.
In 2022, ceded premiums earned decreased $1.88 billion primarily due to higher gross catastrophe
primarily due to the expiration of legacy National losses in 2021 that resulted in reinsurance activity. In
General reinsurance programs. In 2021, ceded 2021, ceded claims and claims expenses increased
premiums earned increased primarily due to the $2.95 billion primarily due to Hurricane Ida and Winter
addition of National General into our program and Storm Uri. For further discussion of these items, see
increased catastrophe reinsurance premium rates. In Regulation, Indemnification Programs and Note 11 of
2022, ceded claims and claims expenses decreased the consolidated financial statements.
164 2022 Annual Report
165 www.allstate.comProperty and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves Property and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Reserves
relevant factors. In addition, in the ordinary course of recoverable from them and future claims ceded to Michigan personal injury protection reserve and claim activity before and after the effects of MCCA recoverables
business, we may become involved in coverage them to be considered a higher risk. There has also For the years ended December 31,
disputes with certain of our reinsurers that may been consolidation activity in the industry, which
2022 2021 2020
ultimately result in lawsuits and arbitrations brought by causes reinsurance risk across the industry to be
($ in millions) Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net
or against such reinsurers to determine the parties’ concentrated among fewer companies.
Beginning reserves $ 7,387 $ 747 $ 6,282 $ 670 $ 6,106 $ 647
rights and obligations under the various reinsurance
See Note 2 of the consolidated financial National General acquisition as of January 4, 2021 — — 566 31 — —
agreements. We employ dedicated specialists to
manage reinsurance collections and disputes. We also statements for a description of the methodology Incurred claims and claims expense-current year 451 175 398 132 312 98
utilized to calculate the allowance for reinsurance
consider recent developments in commutation activity Incurred claims and claims expense-prior years (159) (15) 403 59 107 65
recoverables.
between reinsurers and cedents, and recent trends in Claims and claims expense paid-current year (1) (26) (26) (35) (35) (47) (42)
arbitration and litigation outcomes in disputes For further details related to our reinsurance and Claims and claims expense paid-prior years (1) (260) (146) (227) (110) (196) (98)
between cedents and reinsurers in seeking to indemnification recoverables, see the Regulation Ending reserves (2) $ 7,393 $ 735 $ 7,387 $ 747 $ 6,282 $ 670
maximize our reinsurance recoveries. section in Form 10-K Part I and Note 11 of the
consolidated financial statements. (1) Paid claims and claims expenses reported in the table for the current and prior years, recovered from the MCCA totaled $114
Adverse developments in the insurance industry
million, $117 million and $103 million in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
have led to a decline in the financial strength of some
(2)Gross reserves for the year ended December 31, 2022, comprise 76% case reserves and 24% IBNR. Gross reserves for the year
of our reinsurance carriers, causing amounts
ended December 31, 2021, comprise 74% case reserves and 26% IBNR. Gross reserves for the year ended December 31, 2020,
comprise 82% case reserves and 18% IBNR. The MCCA does not require member companies to report ultimate case reserves.
Effects of reinsurance ceded and indemnification programs on our premiums earned and claims and claims
expense Pending MCCA claims differ from most personal lines insurance pending claims as other personal lines policies
For the years ended December 31, incurred claims settle in shorter periods due to having a coverage limit. MCCA claims can be outstanding for a
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 claimant’s lifetime, as there is no contractual limitation. Many of these injuries are catastrophic in nature, resulting in
Allstate Protection - Premiums serious permanent disabilities that require attendant and residential care for periods that may span decades. A
Indemnification programs significant portion of the ultimate incurred claim reserves and the recoverables can be attributed to a small number of
State-based industry pool or facility programs catastrophic claims that occurred more than five years ago and continue to pay lifetime benefits.
NCRF $ 300 $ 310 $ 63
Pending, new and closed claims for Michigan personal injury protection exposure
MCCA 18 20 61
For the years ended December 31,
PLIGA 7 7 7
Number of claims (1) 2022 2021 2020
FHCF 24 15 9
Pending, beginning of year 5,421 4,857 4,942
Other — 420 34
Federal Government - NFIP 319 350 261 National General acquisition as of January 4, 2021 — 525 —
Catastrophe reinsurance 764 541 416 New 8,059 8,616 5,896
Other reinsurance programs 261 60 110 Closed (7,912) (8,577) (5,981)
Total Allstate Protection 1,693 1,723 961 Pending, end of year 5,568 5,421 4,857
Run-off Property-Liability — — —
(1) Total claims includes those covered and not covered by the MCCA indemnification.
Total Property-Liability 1,693 1,723 961
Protection Services 176 181 180 As of December 31, 2022, approximately 1,450 of Catastrophe reinsurance Our catastrophe
Total effect on premiums earned $ 1,869 $ 1,904 $ 1,141 our pending claims have been reported to the MCCA, reinsurance program is designed to address our
of which approximately 75% represents claims that exposure to catastrophes nationwide, utilizing our risk
Allstate Protection - Claims occurred more than 5 years ago. There are 52 Allstate management methodology. Our program is designed
Indemnification programs brand claims with reserves in excess of $15 million as of to provide reinsurance protection for catastrophes
State-based industry pool or facility programs December 31, 2022, which comprise approximately 20% resulting from multiple perils including hurricanes,
MCCA $ 116 $ 611 $ 256 of the gross ending reserves in the table above. As a windstorms, hail, tornadoes, earthquakes, wildfires,
NCRF 294 279 47 result, significant developments with a single claimant and fires following earthquakes. These reinsurance
can result in volatility in prior year incurred claims. agreements are part of our catastrophe management
PLIGA (24) — (40)
strategy, which is intended to provide our shareholders
FHCF 74 13 15 Intercompany reinsurance We enter into certain
an acceptable return on the risks assumed in our
Other — 359 16 intercompany insurance and reinsurance transactions
property business, while providing protection to our
Federal Government - NFIP 435 267 87 in order to maintain underwriting control and manage
customers.
Catastrophe reinsurance 298 1,719 (105) (1) insurance risk among various legal entities. These
Other reinsurance programs 261 85 88 reinsurance agreements have been approved by the We anticipate completing the placement of our
Total Allstate Protection 1,454 3,333 364 appropriate regulatory authorities. All significant 2023 nationwide catastrophe reinsurance program in
Run-off Property-Liability 50 60 75 intercompany transactions have been eliminated in the first half of 2023. For further details of the existing
Total Property-Liability 1,504 3,393 439 consolidation. 2022 program, see Note 11 of the consolidated financial
Protection Services 96 91 91 statements.
Total effect on claims and claims expense $ 1,600 $ 3,484 $ 530
(1) Reflects reestimates in claims and claims expense related subrogation settlements.
In 2022, ceded premiums earned decreased $1.88 billion primarily due to higher gross catastrophe
primarily due to the expiration of legacy National losses in 2021 that resulted in reinsurance activity. In
General reinsurance programs. In 2021, ceded 2021, ceded claims and claims expenses increased
premiums earned increased primarily due to the $2.95 billion primarily due to Hurricane Ida and Winter
addition of National General into our program and Storm Uri. For further discussion of these items, see
increased catastrophe reinsurance premium rates. In Regulation, Indemnification Programs and Note 11 of
2022, ceded claims and claims expenses decreased the consolidated financial statements.
164 2022 Annual Report
165 www.allstate.comAllstate Health and Benefits Allstate Health and Benefits
Allstate Health and Benefits Segment New annualized premium sales (annualized Accident, health and other policy benefits
premiums at initial employer voluntary benefits increased 1.1% or $12 million in 2022 compared to 2021,
Allstate Health and Benefits offers employer voluntary benefits, group health and individual health products, customer enrollment or health policy sale) decreased primarily due to increased contract benefits for group
including life, accident, critical illness, hospital, short-term disability and other health products. Allstate Health and to $734 million in 2022. The decrease in 2022 primarily health, partially offset by employer voluntary benefits
Benefits results include National General’s accident and health business, starting in the first quarter of 2021. Results relates to a decline in employer voluntary benefits and and individual health.
prior to 2021 reflect historical Allstate Benefits results only. individual health business, partially offset by growth in
Benefit ratio increased to 56.1 in 2022 compared to
group health.
In 2022, Allstate Health and Benefits represented 2.3% of total PIF. Our target customers are middle market 55.7 in 2021, primarily due to a higher benefit ratio in
consumers with family and financial protection needs. Additional information on our strategy and outlook can be found Other revenue increased $43 million in 2022 group and individual health, partially offset by a lower
in Strategy and Segment Information. compared to 2021, primarily due to an increase in benefit ratio in employer voluntary benefits. Accident,
group health administrative fees. health and other policy benefits include changes in
Summarized financial information
estimated reserves for future policy benefits, expected
For the years ended December 31,
development on reported claims, and reserves for
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 incurred but not reported claims as discussed in
Revenues Note 10.
Accident and health insurance premiums and contract charges $ 1,833 $ 1,821 $ 1,094
Other revenue 402 359 — Changes in DAC
Net investment income 69 74 78 For the years ended
($ in millions) 2022 2021
Costs and expenses
Balance, beginning of year $ 477 $ 470
Accident, health and other policy benefits (1,061) (1,049) (549)
National General acquisition — 3
Amortization of DAC (147) (144) (177)
Acquisition costs deferred 170 146
Operating costs and expenses (814) (787) (322)
Amortization of DAC before amortization relating to changes in assumptions (1) (146) (146)
Restructuring and related charges (2) (9) (1)
Amortization relating to net gains and losses on investments and derivatives (1) (1) —
Income tax expense on operations (58) (57) (27) Amortization acceleration for DAC unlocking (1) 1 2
Adjusted net income $ 222 $ 208 $ 96 Effect of unrealized capital gains and losses (2) 3 2
Ending balance $ 504 $ 477
Benefit ratio (1) 56.1 55.7 47.2
Employer voluntary benefits (2) 3,783 3,804 3,950 (1) Included as a component of amortization of DAC on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Group health (3) 119 122 — (2)Represents the change in the DAC adjustment for unrealized capital gains and losses. The DAC adjustment represents the amount
by which the amortization of DAC would increase or decrease if the unrealized gains and losses in the respective product
Individual health (4) 394 407 —
portfolios were realized.
Policies in force as of December 31 (in thousands) 4,296 4,333 3,950
Operating costs and expenses
(1) Benefit ratio is calculated as accident, health and other policy benefits less interest credited to contractholder funds of $33 million, For the years ended December 31,
$34 million, and $33 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively, divided by premiums and
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
contract charges.
Non-deferrable commissions $ 321 $ 316 $ 99
(2)Employer voluntary benefits include supplemental life and health products offered through workplace enrollment.
General and administrative expenses 493 471 223
(3)Group health includes health products and administrative services sold to employers.
Total operating costs and expenses $ 814 $ 787 $ 322
(4)Individual health includes short-term medical and other health products sold directly to individuals.
Adjusted net income increased $14 million in 2022 Premiums and contract charges increased 0.7% or Operating costs and expenses increased $27 million in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to higher professional
compared to 2021, primarily due to increases in group $12 million in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to services and employee related expenses.
health revenues, partially offset by higher operating growth in group health, partially offset by a decline in
costs and expenses and group health contract individual health.
benefits.
Premiums and contract charges by line of business
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Employer voluntary benefits $ 1,036 $ 1,031 $ 1,094
Group health 385 350 —
Individual health 412 440 —
Premiums and contract charges $ 1,833 $ 1,821 $ 1,094
166 2022 Annual Report
167 www.allstate.comAllstate Health and Benefits Allstate Health and Benefits
Allstate Health and Benefits Segment New annualized premium sales (annualized Accident, health and other policy benefits
premiums at initial employer voluntary benefits increased 1.1% or $12 million in 2022 compared to 2021,
Allstate Health and Benefits offers employer voluntary benefits, group health and individual health products, customer enrollment or health policy sale) decreased primarily due to increased contract benefits for group
including life, accident, critical illness, hospital, short-term disability and other health products. Allstate Health and to $734 million in 2022. The decrease in 2022 primarily health, partially offset by employer voluntary benefits
Benefits results include National General’s accident and health business, starting in the first quarter of 2021. Results relates to a decline in employer voluntary benefits and and individual health.
prior to 2021 reflect historical Allstate Benefits results only. individual health business, partially offset by growth in
Benefit ratio increased to 56.1 in 2022 compared to
group health.
In 2022, Allstate Health and Benefits represented 2.3% of total PIF. Our target customers are middle market 55.7 in 2021, primarily due to a higher benefit ratio in
consumers with family and financial protection needs. Additional information on our strategy and outlook can be found Other revenue increased $43 million in 2022 group and individual health, partially offset by a lower
in Strategy and Segment Information. compared to 2021, primarily due to an increase in benefit ratio in employer voluntary benefits. Accident,
group health administrative fees. health and other policy benefits include changes in
Summarized financial information
estimated reserves for future policy benefits, expected
For the years ended December 31,
development on reported claims, and reserves for
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 incurred but not reported claims as discussed in
Revenues Note 10.
Accident and health insurance premiums and contract charges $ 1,833 $ 1,821 $ 1,094
Other revenue 402 359 — Changes in DAC
Net investment income 69 74 78 For the years ended
($ in millions) 2022 2021
Costs and expenses
Balance, beginning of year $ 477 $ 470
Accident, health and other policy benefits (1,061) (1,049) (549)
National General acquisition — 3
Amortization of DAC (147) (144) (177)
Acquisition costs deferred 170 146
Operating costs and expenses (814) (787) (322)
Amortization of DAC before amortization relating to changes in assumptions (1) (146) (146)
Restructuring and related charges (2) (9) (1)
Amortization relating to net gains and losses on investments and derivatives (1) (1) —
Income tax expense on operations (58) (57) (27) Amortization acceleration for DAC unlocking (1) 1 2
Adjusted net income $ 222 $ 208 $ 96 Effect of unrealized capital gains and losses (2) 3 2
Ending balance $ 504 $ 477
Benefit ratio (1) 56.1 55.7 47.2
Employer voluntary benefits (2) 3,783 3,804 3,950 (1) Included as a component of amortization of DAC on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Group health (3) 119 122 — (2)Represents the change in the DAC adjustment for unrealized capital gains and losses. The DAC adjustment represents the amount
by which the amortization of DAC would increase or decrease if the unrealized gains and losses in the respective product
Individual health (4) 394 407 —
portfolios were realized.
Policies in force as of December 31 (in thousands) 4,296 4,333 3,950
Operating costs and expenses
(1) Benefit ratio is calculated as accident, health and other policy benefits less interest credited to contractholder funds of $33 million, For the years ended December 31,
$34 million, and $33 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively, divided by premiums and
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
contract charges.
Non-deferrable commissions $ 321 $ 316 $ 99
(2)Employer voluntary benefits include supplemental life and health products offered through workplace enrollment.
General and administrative expenses 493 471 223
(3)Group health includes health products and administrative services sold to employers.
Total operating costs and expenses $ 814 $ 787 $ 322
(4)Individual health includes short-term medical and other health products sold directly to individuals.
Adjusted net income increased $14 million in 2022 Premiums and contract charges increased 0.7% or Operating costs and expenses increased $27 million in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to higher professional
compared to 2021, primarily due to increases in group $12 million in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to services and employee related expenses.
health revenues, partially offset by higher operating growth in group health, partially offset by a decline in
costs and expenses and group health contract individual health.
benefits.
Premiums and contract charges by line of business
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Employer voluntary benefits $ 1,036 $ 1,031 $ 1,094
Group health 385 350 —
Individual health 412 440 —
Premiums and contract charges $ 1,833 $ 1,821 $ 1,094
166 2022 Annual Report
167 www.allstate.comAllstate Health and Benefits Investments
Allstate Health and Benefits reinsurance ceded Investments
The vast majority of reinsurance relates to the disposition of long-term care and other closed blocks of business. Overview and strategy The Corporate and Other portfolio is focused on
We retain primary liability as a direct insurer for all risks ceded to reinsurers. liquidity needs and capital preservation within a total
The return on our investment portfolios is an
return framework. The portfolio is largely comprised of
Reinsurance recoverables by reinsurer, net important component of our ability to offer good value
high-quality liquid fixed income securities and short-
S&P financial A.M. Best financial Reinsurance recoverable on paid to customers, fund business improvements and create term investments.
strength rating strength rating and unpaid benefits value for shareholders. Investment portfolios are held
As of December 31, for Property-Liability, Protection Services, Allstate We utilize two primary strategies to manage risks
Health and Benefits and Corporate and Other and returns and to position our portfolio to take
($ in millions) 2022 2021
operations. While taking into consideration the advantage of market opportunities while attempting to
Mutual of Omaha Insurance A+ A+ $ 55 $ 55
investment portfolio in aggregate, management of the mitigate adverse effects. As strategies and market
Everlake Life Insurance Company NR A+ 35 39
underlying portfolios is significantly influenced by the conditions evolve, the asset allocation may change.
Argo Capital Group Ltd. NR NR 20 19
nature of each respective business and its
General Re Life Corporation AA+ A++ 10 16 corresponding liability profile. For each business, we Market-based strategy seeks to deliver predictable
earnings aligned to business needs and provide
Midlands Casualty Insurance Company NR NR 16 16 identify a strategic asset allocation which considers
flexibility to adjust investment risk profile based on
Other (1) 6 17 both the nature of the liabilities and the risk and return
enterprise objectives and market opportunities
Credit loss allowance (3) (8) characteristics of the various asset classes in which we
primarily through public and private fixed income
Total $ 139 $ 154 invest. This allocation is informed by our long-term
investments and public equity securities.
business and market expectations, as well as other
(1) As of December 31, 2022, the other category includes $3 million and $4 million of recoverables due from reinsurers rated A- or considerations such as risk appetite, portfolio Performance-based strategy seeks to deliver
better by S&P and A.M. Best, respectively. As of December 31, 2021, the other category includes $8 million and $5 million of diversification, duration, desired liquidity and capital. attractive risk-adjusted returns and supplement
recoverables due from reinsurers rated A- or better by S&P and A.M. Best, respectively. Within appropriate ranges relative to strategic market risk with idiosyncratic risk. Returns are
We continuously monitor the creditworthiness of reinsurers in order to determine our risk of recoverability on an allocations, tactical allocations are made in impacted by a variety of factors including general
individual and aggregate basis. No reinsurance recoverables have been written off in the three-years ended consideration of prevailing and potential future market macroeconomic and public market conditions as public
December 31, 2022. conditions. We manage risks that involve uncertainty benchmarks are often used in the valuation of
related to interest rates, inflation, credit spreads, underlying investments. Variability in earnings will also
equity returns and currency exchange rates. result from the performance of the underlying assets or
business and the timing of sales of those investments.
The Property-Liability portfolio emphasizes
Earnings from the sales of investments may be
protection of principal and consistent income
recorded as net investment income or net gains and
generation, within a total return framework. This
losses on investments and derivatives. The portfolio,
approach has produced competitive returns over the
which primarily includes private equity (including
long term and is designed to ensure financial strength
infrastructure investments) and real estate with a
and stability for paying claims, while maximizing
majority being limited partnerships, is diversified
economic value and surplus growth. Products with
across a number of characteristics, including managers
lower liquidity needs, such as auto insurance and run-
or partners, vintage years, investment strategies,
off lines, and capital create capacity to invest in less
geographies (including international) and industry
liquid higher yielding fixed income securities,
sectors or property types. These investments are
performance-based investments such as limited
generally illiquid in nature, often require specialized
partnerships and equity securities. Products with
expertise, typically involve a third-party manager, and
higher liquidity needs, such as homeowners insurance,
enhance returns and income through transformation at
are invested primarily in high quality liquid fixed
the company or property level. A portion of these
income securities.
investments seek returns in markets or asset classes
The Protection Services portfolio is focused on that are dislocated or special situations, primarily in
protection of principal and consistent income private markets.
generation, within a total return framework. The
portfolio is largely comprised of fixed income securities
with a lesser allocation to equity securities and short-
term investments.
The Allstate Health and Benefits portfolio is
focused on protection of principal and consistent
income generation while targeting an appropriate
return on capital. The portfolio is largely comprised of
fixed income securities with a small allocation to
commercial mortgage loans and equity securities.
168 2022 Annual Report
169 www.allstate.comAllstate Health and Benefits Investments
Allstate Health and Benefits reinsurance ceded Investments
The vast majority of reinsurance relates to the disposition of long-term care and other closed blocks of business. Overview and strategy The Corporate and Other portfolio is focused on
We retain primary liability as a direct insurer for all risks ceded to reinsurers. liquidity needs and capital preservation within a total
The return on our investment portfolios is an
return framework. The portfolio is largely comprised of
Reinsurance recoverables by reinsurer, net important component of our ability to offer good value
high-quality liquid fixed income securities and short-
S&P financial A.M. Best financial Reinsurance recoverable on paid to customers, fund business improvements and create term investments.
strength rating strength rating and unpaid benefits value for shareholders. Investment portfolios are held
As of December 31, for Property-Liability, Protection Services, Allstate We utilize two primary strategies to manage risks
Health and Benefits and Corporate and Other and returns and to position our portfolio to take
($ in millions) 2022 2021
operations. While taking into consideration the advantage of market opportunities while attempting to
Mutual of Omaha Insurance A+ A+ $ 55 $ 55
investment portfolio in aggregate, management of the mitigate adverse effects. As strategies and market
Everlake Life Insurance Company NR A+ 35 39
underlying portfolios is significantly influenced by the conditions evolve, the asset allocation may change.
Argo Capital Group Ltd. NR NR 20 19
nature of each respective business and its
General Re Life Corporation AA+ A++ 10 16 corresponding liability profile. For each business, we Market-based strategy seeks to deliver predictable
earnings aligned to business needs and provide
Midlands Casualty Insurance Company NR NR 16 16 identify a strategic asset allocation which considers
flexibility to adjust investment risk profile based on
Other (1) 6 17 both the nature of the liabilities and the risk and return
enterprise objectives and market opportunities
Credit loss allowance (3) (8) characteristics of the various asset classes in which we
primarily through public and private fixed income
Total $ 139 $ 154 invest. This allocation is informed by our long-term
investments and public equity securities.
business and market expectations, as well as other
(1) As of December 31, 2022, the other category includes $3 million and $4 million of recoverables due from reinsurers rated A- or considerations such as risk appetite, portfolio Performance-based strategy seeks to deliver
better by S&P and A.M. Best, respectively. As of December 31, 2021, the other category includes $8 million and $5 million of diversification, duration, desired liquidity and capital. attractive risk-adjusted returns and supplement
recoverables due from reinsurers rated A- or better by S&P and A.M. Best, respectively. Within appropriate ranges relative to strategic market risk with idiosyncratic risk. Returns are
We continuously monitor the creditworthiness of reinsurers in order to determine our risk of recoverability on an allocations, tactical allocations are made in impacted by a variety of factors including general
individual and aggregate basis. No reinsurance recoverables have been written off in the three-years ended consideration of prevailing and potential future market macroeconomic and public market conditions as public
December 31, 2022. conditions. We manage risks that involve uncertainty benchmarks are often used in the valuation of
related to interest rates, inflation, credit spreads, underlying investments. Variability in earnings will also
equity returns and currency exchange rates. result from the performance of the underlying assets or
business and the timing of sales of those investments.
The Property-Liability portfolio emphasizes
Earnings from the sales of investments may be
protection of principal and consistent income
recorded as net investment income or net gains and
generation, within a total return framework. This
losses on investments and derivatives. The portfolio,
approach has produced competitive returns over the
which primarily includes private equity (including
long term and is designed to ensure financial strength
infrastructure investments) and real estate with a
and stability for paying claims, while maximizing
majority being limited partnerships, is diversified
economic value and surplus growth. Products with
across a number of characteristics, including managers
lower liquidity needs, such as auto insurance and run-
or partners, vintage years, investment strategies,
off lines, and capital create capacity to invest in less
geographies (including international) and industry
liquid higher yielding fixed income securities,
sectors or property types. These investments are
performance-based investments such as limited
generally illiquid in nature, often require specialized
partnerships and equity securities. Products with
expertise, typically involve a third-party manager, and
higher liquidity needs, such as homeowners insurance,
enhance returns and income through transformation at
are invested primarily in high quality liquid fixed
the company or property level. A portion of these
income securities.
investments seek returns in markets or asset classes
The Protection Services portfolio is focused on that are dislocated or special situations, primarily in
protection of principal and consistent income private markets.
generation, within a total return framework. The
portfolio is largely comprised of fixed income securities
with a lesser allocation to equity securities and short-
term investments.
The Allstate Health and Benefits portfolio is
focused on protection of principal and consistent
income generation while targeting an appropriate
return on capital. The portfolio is largely comprised of
fixed income securities with a small allocation to
commercial mortgage loans and equity securities.
168 2022 Annual Report
169 www.allstate.comInvestments Investments
Macroeconomic impacts Supply chain Through our integrated enterprise risk and return Investments totaled $61.83 billion as of December 31, 2022, decreasing from $64.70 billion as of December 31, 2021,
disruptions, labor shortages and other macroeconomic management framework, we concluded in late 2021 primarily due to lower fixed income and equity valuations, common share repurchases and dividends paid to
factors have increased inflation, which may have an that due to increasing enterprise risks from elevated shareholders, partially offset by positive operating cash flows.
adverse impact on investment valuations and returns. inflation, the amount of investment risk we were willing
As inflation continued to remain elevated, the Federal to accept had declined. As a result, we decreased the Portfolio composition by investment strategy
Reserve significantly increased interest rates and allocation of economic capital to the investment As of December 31, 2022
credit spreads widened reflecting ongoing recession portfolio. This decision led to a reduction in interest Market- Performance-
concerns. These factors along with other ongoing rate risk by shortening the portfolio duration beginning ($ in millions) based based Total
impacts from the pandemic create significant in the fourth quarter of 2021, primarily through the sale Fixed income securities $ 42,390 $ 95 $ 42,485
economic uncertainty and the resulting market of long corporate and municipal bonds and the use of Equity securities 4,112 455 4,567
volatility may continue to impact our investment derivatives. These proactive actions mitigated portfolio Mortgage loans, net 762 — 762
valuations and returns. losses by approximately $2 billion in 2022. As recession
Limited partnership interests 483 7,631 8,114
risks increased during 2022, we also reduced the
Investments in Russia and Ukraine As of Short-term investments 4,173 — 4,173
amount of equity risk and credit risk in the portfolio
December 31, 2022, we do not have any direct Other investments, net 825 903 1,728
through a reduction in public equity, high yield bonds
investments in Russia, Belarus or Ukraine. We have Total $ 52,745 $ 9,084 $ 61,829
and bank loans. We expect to maintain performance-
indirect exposure of less than $1 million in Russia and based investments in our portfolio, consistent with our Percent to total 85.3 % 14.7 % 100.0 %
Ukraine through broad-based, global funds managed
strategy to have a greater proportion of return derived
by external asset managers.
from idiosyncratic asset or operating performance. The Unrealized net capital gains and losses
Investments Outlook portfolio remains defensively positioned to interest Fixed income securities $ (2,884) $ (1) $ (2,885)
rate, equity and credit risk at year-end relative to our Limited partnership interests — 2 2
We plan to focus on the following priorities:
positioning prior to these risk-reducing actions.
Short-term investments (1) — (1)
• Enhance investment portfolio returns through use Other investments (3) — (3)
Contractual maturities and yields of fixed income
of a dynamic capital allocation framework and
securities for the next three years Total $ (2,888) $ 1 $ (2,887)
focus on tax efficiency.
Fixed income securities
• Leverage our broad capabilities to manage the During 2022, strategic actions focused on rate derivatives and any call features associated with
($ in millions) Carrying value Investment yield
portfolio to earn higher risk-adjusted returns on optimizing portfolio yield, return and risk in the more the securities), and removed approximately half of the
2023 $ 2,836 2.9 %
capital. volatile and rising interest rate environment. In the first interest rate derivatives that we entered into in the
2024 7,504 2.9
• Invest for the specific needs and characteristics of quarter, we continued to shorten the maturity profile of first quarter of 2022. Considering the ongoing risk of
2025 7,331 3.2
Allstate’s businesses, including its corresponding our fixed income portfolio through the sale of bonds recession, we retained a lower allocation to high-yield
liability profile. and use of derivatives, to further reduce its sensitivity bonds, bank loans and public equity relative to year-
to higher interest rates. The sustained higher market end 2021. We maintained performance-based
yields provide an opportunity to increase risk-adjusted investments in the Property-Liability portfolio.
returns, so in the fourth quarter, we extended the
Portfolio composition and strategy by reporting segment (1)
duration to 3.4 years (including the effect of interest
As of December 31, 2022
Allstate Fixed income securities
Property- Protection Health and Corporate
($ in millions) Liability Services Benefits and Other Total Fixed income securities by type
Fixed income securities (2) $ 36,133 $ 1,694 $ 1,556 $ 3,102 $ 42,485 Fair value as of December 31,
Equity securities (3) 3,807 127 63 570 4,567 ($ in millions) 2022 2021
Mortgage loans, net 661 — 101 — 762 U.S. government and agencies $ 7,898 $ 6,273
Limited partnership interests 8,106 — — 8 8,114 Municipal 6,210 6,393
Short-term investments (4) 3,698 96 32 347 4,173 Corporate 26,263 27,330
Other investments, net 1,606 — 120 2 1,728 Foreign government 957 985
Total $ 54,011 $ 1,917 $ 1,872 $ 4,029 $ 61,829 Asset-backed securities (“ABS”) 1,157 1,155
Percent to total 87.4 % 3.1 % 3.0 % 6.5 % 100.0 % Total fixed income securities $ 42,485 $ 42,136
Fixed income securities are rated by third-party Global Ratings (“S&P”), Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”), or a
Market-based $ 44,929 $ 1,917 $ 1,872 $ 4,027 $ 52,745
credit rating agencies or are internally rated. The comparable internal rating.
Performance-based 9,082 — — 2 9,084
Securities Valuation Office (“SVO”) of the National
Total $ 54,011 $ 1,917 $ 1,872 $ 4,029 $ 61,829 As a result of time lags between the funding of
Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”)
investments, the finalization of legal documents, and
(1) Balances reflect the elimination of related party investments between segments. evaluates the fixed income securities of insurers for the completion of the SVO filing process, the portfolio
regulatory reporting and capital assessment purposes.
(2)Fixed income securities are carried at fair value. Amortized cost, net for these securities was $38.59 billion, $1.83 billion, $1.73 includes certain securities that have not yet been
The NAIC assigns securities to one of six credit quality
billion, $3.22 billion and $45.37 billion for Property-Liability, Protection Services, Allstate Health and Benefits, Corporate and Other, designated by the SVO as of each balance sheet date
and in total, respectively. categories defined as “NAIC designations”. In general,
and the categorization of these securities is based on
(3)Equity securities are carried at fair value. The fair value of equity securities, held as of December 31, 2022, was $314 million in securities with NAIC designations of 1 or 2 are the expected ratings indicated by internal analysis.
considered investment grade and securities with NAIC
excess of cost. These net gains were primarily concentrated in the consumer goods, technology and banking sectors. Equity
securities include $983 million of funds with underlying investments in fixed income securities as of December 31, 2022. designations of 3 through 6 are considered below As of December 31, 2022, 90.4% of the
(4)Short-term investments are carried at fair value. investment grade. The rating is either received from consolidated fixed income securities portfolio was
the SVO based on availability of applicable ratings from rated investment grade. Credit ratings below these
rating agencies on the NAIC Nationally Recognized designations are considered lower credit quality or
Statistical Rating Organizations (“NRSRO”) provider list, below investment grade, which includes high yield
including Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”), S&P bonds.
170 2022 Annual Report
171 www.allstate.comInvestments Investments
Macroeconomic impacts Supply chain Through our integrated enterprise risk and return Investments totaled $61.83 billion as of December 31, 2022, decreasing from $64.70 billion as of December 31, 2021,
disruptions, labor shortages and other macroeconomic management framework, we concluded in late 2021 primarily due to lower fixed income and equity valuations, common share repurchases and dividends paid to
factors have increased inflation, which may have an that due to increasing enterprise risks from elevated shareholders, partially offset by positive operating cash flows.
adverse impact on investment valuations and returns. inflation, the amount of investment risk we were willing
As inflation continued to remain elevated, the Federal to accept had declined. As a result, we decreased the Portfolio composition by investment strategy
Reserve significantly increased interest rates and allocation of economic capital to the investment As of December 31, 2022
credit spreads widened reflecting ongoing recession portfolio. This decision led to a reduction in interest Market- Performance-
concerns. These factors along with other ongoing rate risk by shortening the portfolio duration beginning ($ in millions) based based Total
impacts from the pandemic create significant in the fourth quarter of 2021, primarily through the sale Fixed income securities $ 42,390 $ 95 $ 42,485
economic uncertainty and the resulting market of long corporate and municipal bonds and the use of Equity securities 4,112 455 4,567
volatility may continue to impact our investment derivatives. These proactive actions mitigated portfolio Mortgage loans, net 762 — 762
valuations and returns. losses by approximately $2 billion in 2022. As recession
Limited partnership interests 483 7,631 8,114
risks increased during 2022, we also reduced the
Investments in Russia and Ukraine As of Short-term investments 4,173 — 4,173
amount of equity risk and credit risk in the portfolio
December 31, 2022, we do not have any direct Other investments, net 825 903 1,728
through a reduction in public equity, high yield bonds
investments in Russia, Belarus or Ukraine. We have Total $ 52,745 $ 9,084 $ 61,829
and bank loans. We expect to maintain performance-
indirect exposure of less than $1 million in Russia and based investments in our portfolio, consistent with our Percent to total 85.3 % 14.7 % 100.0 %
Ukraine through broad-based, global funds managed
strategy to have a greater proportion of return derived
by external asset managers.
from idiosyncratic asset or operating performance. The Unrealized net capital gains and losses
Investments Outlook portfolio remains defensively positioned to interest Fixed income securities $ (2,884) $ (1) $ (2,885)
rate, equity and credit risk at year-end relative to our Limited partnership interests — 2 2
We plan to focus on the following priorities:
positioning prior to these risk-reducing actions.
Short-term investments (1) — (1)
• Enhance investment portfolio returns through use Other investments (3) — (3)
Contractual maturities and yields of fixed income
of a dynamic capital allocation framework and
securities for the next three years Total $ (2,888) $ 1 $ (2,887)
focus on tax efficiency.
Fixed income securities
• Leverage our broad capabilities to manage the During 2022, strategic actions focused on rate derivatives and any call features associated with
($ in millions) Carrying value Investment yield
portfolio to earn higher risk-adjusted returns on optimizing portfolio yield, return and risk in the more the securities), and removed approximately half of the
2023 $ 2,836 2.9 %
capital. volatile and rising interest rate environment. In the first interest rate derivatives that we entered into in the
2024 7,504 2.9
• Invest for the specific needs and characteristics of quarter, we continued to shorten the maturity profile of first quarter of 2022. Considering the ongoing risk of
2025 7,331 3.2
Allstate’s businesses, including its corresponding our fixed income portfolio through the sale of bonds recession, we retained a lower allocation to high-yield
liability profile. and use of derivatives, to further reduce its sensitivity bonds, bank loans and public equity relative to year-
to higher interest rates. The sustained higher market end 2021. We maintained performance-based
yields provide an opportunity to increase risk-adjusted investments in the Property-Liability portfolio.
returns, so in the fourth quarter, we extended the
Portfolio composition and strategy by reporting segment (1)
duration to 3.4 years (including the effect of interest
As of December 31, 2022
Allstate Fixed income securities
Property- Protection Health and Corporate
($ in millions) Liability Services Benefits and Other Total Fixed income securities by type
Fixed income securities (2) $ 36,133 $ 1,694 $ 1,556 $ 3,102 $ 42,485 Fair value as of December 31,
Equity securities (3) 3,807 127 63 570 4,567 ($ in millions) 2022 2021
Mortgage loans, net 661 — 101 — 762 U.S. government and agencies $ 7,898 $ 6,273
Limited partnership interests 8,106 — — 8 8,114 Municipal 6,210 6,393
Short-term investments (4) 3,698 96 32 347 4,173 Corporate 26,263 27,330
Other investments, net 1,606 — 120 2 1,728 Foreign government 957 985
Total $ 54,011 $ 1,917 $ 1,872 $ 4,029 $ 61,829 Asset-backed securities (“ABS”) 1,157 1,155
Percent to total 87.4 % 3.1 % 3.0 % 6.5 % 100.0 % Total fixed income securities $ 42,485 $ 42,136
Fixed income securities are rated by third-party Global Ratings (“S&P”), Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”), or a
Market-based $ 44,929 $ 1,917 $ 1,872 $ 4,027 $ 52,745
credit rating agencies or are internally rated. The comparable internal rating.
Performance-based 9,082 — — 2 9,084
Securities Valuation Office (“SVO”) of the National
Total $ 54,011 $ 1,917 $ 1,872 $ 4,029 $ 61,829 As a result of time lags between the funding of
Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”)
investments, the finalization of legal documents, and
(1) Balances reflect the elimination of related party investments between segments. evaluates the fixed income securities of insurers for the completion of the SVO filing process, the portfolio
regulatory reporting and capital assessment purposes.
(2)Fixed income securities are carried at fair value. Amortized cost, net for these securities was $38.59 billion, $1.83 billion, $1.73 includes certain securities that have not yet been
The NAIC assigns securities to one of six credit quality
billion, $3.22 billion and $45.37 billion for Property-Liability, Protection Services, Allstate Health and Benefits, Corporate and Other, designated by the SVO as of each balance sheet date
and in total, respectively. categories defined as “NAIC designations”. In general,
and the categorization of these securities is based on
(3)Equity securities are carried at fair value. The fair value of equity securities, held as of December 31, 2022, was $314 million in securities with NAIC designations of 1 or 2 are the expected ratings indicated by internal analysis.
considered investment grade and securities with NAIC
excess of cost. These net gains were primarily concentrated in the consumer goods, technology and banking sectors. Equity
securities include $983 million of funds with underlying investments in fixed income securities as of December 31, 2022. designations of 3 through 6 are considered below As of December 31, 2022, 90.4% of the
(4)Short-term investments are carried at fair value. investment grade. The rating is either received from consolidated fixed income securities portfolio was
the SVO based on availability of applicable ratings from rated investment grade. Credit ratings below these
rating agencies on the NAIC Nationally Recognized designations are considered lower credit quality or
Statistical Rating Organizations (“NRSRO”) provider list, below investment grade, which includes high yield
including Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”), S&P bonds.
170 2022 Annual Report
171 www.allstate.comInvestments Investments
Market prices for certain securities may have credit Fixed income portfolio monitoring is a Our corporate bonds portfolio includes $4.01 billion non-redeemable preferred stocks and real estate
spreads which imply higher or lower credit quality than comprehensive process to identify and evaluate each of below investment grade bonds, $2.91 billion of which investment trust (“REIT”) equity investments. Certain
the current third-party rating. Our initial investment fixed income security that may require a credit loss are privately placed primarily 144A bonds. These exchange traded and mutual funds have fixed income
decisions and ongoing monitoring procedures for fixed allowance. The process includes a quarterly review of securities are diversified by issuer and industry sector. securities as their underlying investments.
income securities are based on a due diligence process all securities to identify instances where the fair value The below investment grade corporate bonds portfolio
Mortgage loans of $762 million mainly comprise loans
which includes, but is not limited to, an assessment of of a security compared to its amortized cost is below is made up of 328 issuers. We employ fundamental
secured by first mortgages on developed commercial
the credit quality, sector, structure and liquidity risks of internally established thresholds. For further detail on analyses of issuers and sectors along with macro and
real estate. Key considerations used to manage our
each issuer. our fixed income portfolio monitoring process, see asset class views to identify investment opportunities.
exposure include property type and geographic
Note 5 of the consolidated financial statements. This results in a portfolio with broad exposure to the
diversification. For further detail on our mortgage loan
high yield market with an emphasis on idiosyncratic
portfolio, see Note 5 of the consolidated financial
positions reflective of our views of market conditions
Fair value and unrealized net capital gains (losses) for fixed income securities by credit rating and opportunities. statements.
December 31, 2022 Limited partnership interests include $6.59 billion of
Foreign government securities consist of Canadian
NAIC 1 NAIC 2 NAIC 3 interests in private equity funds, $1.04 billion of
governmental and provincial securities (all of which are
A and above BBB BB interests in real estate funds and $483 million of
held by our Canadian companies).
Fair Unrealized Fair Unrealized Fair Unrealized interests in other funds as of December 31, 2022. We
($ in millions) value gain (loss) value gain (loss) value gain (loss) ABS are structured securities that are primarily have commitments to invest additional amounts in
collateralized by consumer or corporate borrowings limited partnership interests totaling $2.78 billion as of
U.S. government and agencies $ 7,898 $ (225) $ — $ — $ — $ —
and residential and commercial real estate loans. The December 31, 2022.
Municipal 5,883 (264) 313 (29) — —
cash flows from the underlying collateral paid to the
Corporate securitization trust are generally applied in a pre- Private equity limited partnerships by sector
Public 5,646 (301) 11,868 (1,039) 958 (101) determined order and are designed so that each (% of carrying value) December 31, 2022
Privately placed 1,684 (120) 3,052 (289) 1,533 (197) security issued by the trust, typically referred to as a Industrial 18.8 %
Total corporate 7,330 (421) 14,920 (1,328) 2,491 (298) “class”, qualifies for a specific original rating. Healthcare 12.1
Foreign government 956 (40) 1 — — — Consumer discretionary 11.0
ABS includes collateralized debt obligations,
ABS 1,078 (30) 13 (1) 9 (1) consumer and other ABS. Credit risk is managed by Information technology 11.0
Total fixed income securities $ 23,145 $ (980) $ 15,247 $ (1,358) $ 2,500 $ (299) monitoring the performance of the underlying Consumer staples 9.5
collateral. Many of the securities in the ABS portfolio Other 37.6
NAIC 4 NAIC 5-6 have credit enhancement with features such as Total 100.0 %
overcollateralization, subordinated structures, reserve
B CCC and lower Total
funds, guarantees or insurance. ABS also includes Real estate limited partnerships by sector
Fair Unrealized Fair Unrealized Fair Unrealized residential mortgage-backed securities and
(% of carrying value) December 31, 2022
value gain (loss) value gain (loss) value gain (loss)
commercial mortgage-backed securities.
Industrial 27.7 %
U.S. government and agencies $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 7,898 $ (225)
For example, the “senior” portion or “top” of the Residential 22.0
Municipal 8 — 6 3 6,210 (290)
capital structure, or rating class, which would originally Data centers 14.2
Corporate
qualify for a rating of Aaa typically has priority in Healthcare 11.1
Public 144 (14) — — 18,616 (1,455)
receiving principal repayments on the underlying
Consumer staples 7.0
Privately placed 1,257 (204) 121 (34) 7,647 (844)
collateral and retains this priority until the class is paid
Other 18.0
Total corporate 1,401 (218) 121 (34) 26,263 (2,299) in full. In a sequential structure, underlying collateral
Total 100.0 %
Foreign government — — — — 957 (40) principal repayments are directed to the most senior
ABS 1 — 56 1 1,157 (31) rated Aaa class in the structure until paid in full, after
Short-term investments of $4.17 billion primarily
Total fixed income securities $ 1,410 $ (218) $ 183 $ (30) $ 42,485 $ (2,885) which principal repayments are directed to the next
comprise money market funds, commercial paper, U.S.
most senior Aaa class in the structure until it is paid in
Treasury bills and other short-term investments,
Municipal bonds, including tax exempt and taxable Our $7.65 billion portfolio of privately placed full. Senior Aaa classes generally share any losses from
including securities lending collateral of $1.50 billion.
securities, include general obligations of state and local securities, primarily 144A bonds, is diversified by issuer, the underlying collateral on a pro-rata basis after
issuers and revenue bonds. industry sector and country. The portfolio is made up losses are absorbed by classes with lower original Other investments primarily comprise $686 million of
of 463 issuers. Privately placed corporate obligations ratings. bank loans, $813 million of real estate, $120 million of
Our practice for acquiring and monitoring
may contain structural security features such as policy loans and $1 million of derivatives as of
municipal bonds is predominantly based on the The payment priority and class subordination
financial covenants and call protections that provide December 31, 2022. For further detail on our use of
underlying credit quality of the primary obligor. We included in these securities serves as credit
investors greater protection against credit derivatives, see Note 7 of the consolidated financial
currently rely on the primary obligor to pay all enhancement for holders of the senior or top portions
deterioration, reinvestment risk or fluctuations in statements.
contractual cash flows and are not relying on bond of the structures. These securities continue to retain
interest rates than those typically found in publicly
insurers for payments. As a result of downgrades in the registered debt securities. Additionally, investments in the payment priority features that existed at the Direct real estate investments by sector
insurers’ credit ratings, the ratings of the insured these securities are made after fundamental analysis of origination of the securitization trust. Other forms of (% of carrying value) December 31, 2022
municipal bonds generally reflect the underlying credit enhancement may include structural features
issuers and sectors along with macro and asset class Residential 28.0 %
ratings of the primary obligor. embedded in the securitization trust, such as
views. Ongoing monitoring includes continuous Agriculture 22.3
overcollateralization, excess spread and bond
Corporate bonds include publicly traded and assessment of operating performance and financial Industrial 17.5
insurance. The underlying collateral may contain fixed
privately placed securities. Privately placed securities position. Every issue not rated by an independent interest rates, variable interest rates (such as Retail 16.4
primarily consist of corporate issued senior debt rating agency is internally rated with a formal rating adjustable rate mortgages), or both fixed and variable Other 15.8
securities that are negotiated with the borrower or are affirmation at least once a year. Liquidity of securities
rate features. Total 100.0 %
issued by entities in unregistered form under SEC Rule issued by public entities in unregistered form is similar
144A which allows purchasers to more easily resell to public debt markets. Equity securities of $4.57 billion primarily include
these securities under certain conditions. common stocks, exchange traded and mutual funds,
172 2022 Annual Report
173 www.allstate.comInvestments Investments
Market prices for certain securities may have credit Fixed income portfolio monitoring is a Our corporate bonds portfolio includes $4.01 billion non-redeemable preferred stocks and real estate
spreads which imply higher or lower credit quality than comprehensive process to identify and evaluate each of below investment grade bonds, $2.91 billion of which investment trust (“REIT”) equity investments. Certain
the current third-party rating. Our initial investment fixed income security that may require a credit loss are privately placed primarily 144A bonds. These exchange traded and mutual funds have fixed income
decisions and ongoing monitoring procedures for fixed allowance. The process includes a quarterly review of securities are diversified by issuer and industry sector. securities as their underlying investments.
income securities are based on a due diligence process all securities to identify instances where the fair value The below investment grade corporate bonds portfolio
Mortgage loans of $762 million mainly comprise loans
which includes, but is not limited to, an assessment of of a security compared to its amortized cost is below is made up of 328 issuers. We employ fundamental
secured by first mortgages on developed commercial
the credit quality, sector, structure and liquidity risks of internally established thresholds. For further detail on analyses of issuers and sectors along with macro and
real estate. Key considerations used to manage our
each issuer. our fixed income portfolio monitoring process, see asset class views to identify investment opportunities.
exposure include property type and geographic
Note 5 of the consolidated financial statements. This results in a portfolio with broad exposure to the
diversification. For further detail on our mortgage loan
high yield market with an emphasis on idiosyncratic
portfolio, see Note 5 of the consolidated financial
positions reflective of our views of market conditions
Fair value and unrealized net capital gains (losses) for fixed income securities by credit rating and opportunities. statements.
December 31, 2022 Limited partnership interests include $6.59 billion of
Foreign government securities consist of Canadian
NAIC 1 NAIC 2 NAIC 3 interests in private equity funds, $1.04 billion of
governmental and provincial securities (all of which are
A and above BBB BB interests in real estate funds and $483 million of
held by our Canadian companies).
Fair Unrealized Fair Unrealized Fair Unrealized interests in other funds as of December 31, 2022. We
($ in millions) value gain (loss) value gain (loss) value gain (loss) ABS are structured securities that are primarily have commitments to invest additional amounts in
collateralized by consumer or corporate borrowings limited partnership interests totaling $2.78 billion as of
U.S. government and agencies $ 7,898 $ (225) $ — $ — $ — $ —
and residential and commercial real estate loans. The December 31, 2022.
Municipal 5,883 (264) 313 (29) — —
cash flows from the underlying collateral paid to the
Corporate securitization trust are generally applied in a pre- Private equity limited partnerships by sector
Public 5,646 (301) 11,868 (1,039) 958 (101) determined order and are designed so that each (% of carrying value) December 31, 2022
Privately placed 1,684 (120) 3,052 (289) 1,533 (197) security issued by the trust, typically referred to as a Industrial 18.8 %
Total corporate 7,330 (421) 14,920 (1,328) 2,491 (298) “class”, qualifies for a specific original rating. Healthcare 12.1
Foreign government 956 (40) 1 — — — Consumer discretionary 11.0
ABS includes collateralized debt obligations,
ABS 1,078 (30) 13 (1) 9 (1) consumer and other ABS. Credit risk is managed by Information technology 11.0
Total fixed income securities $ 23,145 $ (980) $ 15,247 $ (1,358) $ 2,500 $ (299) monitoring the performance of the underlying Consumer staples 9.5
collateral. Many of the securities in the ABS portfolio Other 37.6
NAIC 4 NAIC 5-6 have credit enhancement with features such as Total 100.0 %
overcollateralization, subordinated structures, reserve
B CCC and lower Total
funds, guarantees or insurance. ABS also includes Real estate limited partnerships by sector
Fair Unrealized Fair Unrealized Fair Unrealized residential mortgage-backed securities and
(% of carrying value) December 31, 2022
value gain (loss) value gain (loss) value gain (loss)
commercial mortgage-backed securities.
Industrial 27.7 %
U.S. government and agencies $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 7,898 $ (225)
For example, the “senior” portion or “top” of the Residential 22.0
Municipal 8 — 6 3 6,210 (290)
capital structure, or rating class, which would originally Data centers 14.2
Corporate
qualify for a rating of Aaa typically has priority in Healthcare 11.1
Public 144 (14) — — 18,616 (1,455)
receiving principal repayments on the underlying
Consumer staples 7.0
Privately placed 1,257 (204) 121 (34) 7,647 (844)
collateral and retains this priority until the class is paid
Other 18.0
Total corporate 1,401 (218) 121 (34) 26,263 (2,299) in full. In a sequential structure, underlying collateral
Total 100.0 %
Foreign government — — — — 957 (40) principal repayments are directed to the most senior
ABS 1 — 56 1 1,157 (31) rated Aaa class in the structure until paid in full, after
Short-term investments of $4.17 billion primarily
Total fixed income securities $ 1,410 $ (218) $ 183 $ (30) $ 42,485 $ (2,885) which principal repayments are directed to the next
comprise money market funds, commercial paper, U.S.
most senior Aaa class in the structure until it is paid in
Treasury bills and other short-term investments,
Municipal bonds, including tax exempt and taxable Our $7.65 billion portfolio of privately placed full. Senior Aaa classes generally share any losses from
including securities lending collateral of $1.50 billion.
securities, include general obligations of state and local securities, primarily 144A bonds, is diversified by issuer, the underlying collateral on a pro-rata basis after
issuers and revenue bonds. industry sector and country. The portfolio is made up losses are absorbed by classes with lower original Other investments primarily comprise $686 million of
of 463 issuers. Privately placed corporate obligations ratings. bank loans, $813 million of real estate, $120 million of
Our practice for acquiring and monitoring
may contain structural security features such as policy loans and $1 million of derivatives as of
municipal bonds is predominantly based on the The payment priority and class subordination
financial covenants and call protections that provide December 31, 2022. For further detail on our use of
underlying credit quality of the primary obligor. We included in these securities serves as credit
investors greater protection against credit derivatives, see Note 7 of the consolidated financial
currently rely on the primary obligor to pay all enhancement for holders of the senior or top portions
deterioration, reinvestment risk or fluctuations in statements.
contractual cash flows and are not relying on bond of the structures. These securities continue to retain
interest rates than those typically found in publicly
insurers for payments. As a result of downgrades in the registered debt securities. Additionally, investments in the payment priority features that existed at the Direct real estate investments by sector
insurers’ credit ratings, the ratings of the insured these securities are made after fundamental analysis of origination of the securitization trust. Other forms of (% of carrying value) December 31, 2022
municipal bonds generally reflect the underlying credit enhancement may include structural features
issuers and sectors along with macro and asset class Residential 28.0 %
ratings of the primary obligor. embedded in the securitization trust, such as
views. Ongoing monitoring includes continuous Agriculture 22.3
overcollateralization, excess spread and bond
Corporate bonds include publicly traded and assessment of operating performance and financial Industrial 17.5
insurance. The underlying collateral may contain fixed
privately placed securities. Privately placed securities position. Every issue not rated by an independent interest rates, variable interest rates (such as Retail 16.4
primarily consist of corporate issued senior debt rating agency is internally rated with a formal rating adjustable rate mortgages), or both fixed and variable Other 15.8
securities that are negotiated with the borrower or are affirmation at least once a year. Liquidity of securities
rate features. Total 100.0 %
issued by entities in unregistered form under SEC Rule issued by public entities in unregistered form is similar
144A which allows purchasers to more easily resell to public debt markets. Equity securities of $4.57 billion primarily include
these securities under certain conditions. common stocks, exchange traded and mutual funds,
172 2022 Annual Report
173 www.allstate.comInvestments Investments
Unrealized net capital gains (losses) Gross unrealized gains (losses) on fixed income securities by type and sector
As of December 31, As of December 31, 2021
($ in millions) 2022 2021 Amortized Gross unrealized
U.S. government and agencies $ (225) $ (14) ($ in millions) cost Gains Losses Fair value
Municipal (290) 263 Corporate
Corporate (2,299) 496 Consumer goods (cyclical and non-cyclical) $ 6,817 $ 176 $ (42) $ 6,951
Foreign government (40) 3 Banking 3,975 54 (31) 3,998
ABS (31) 12 Utilities 2,009 43 (28) 2,024
Fixed income securities (2,885) 760 Technology 2,947 80 (23) 3,004
Short-term investments (1) — Communications 2,077 58 (21) 2,114
Derivatives (3) (3) Financial services 1,936 41 (14) 1,963
Equity method of accounting (“EMA”) limited partnerships 2 (1) Capital goods 2,615 75 (12) 2,678
Unrealized net capital gains and losses, pre-tax $ (2,887) $ 756 Basic industry 1,249 56 (6) 1,299
Energy
Gross unrealized gains (losses) on fixed income securities by type and sector Midstream 1,132 37 (4) 1,165
As of December 31, 2022 Integrated 119 6 — 125
Amortized Gross unrealized Independent/upstream 312 18 (1) 329
($ in millions) cost, net Gains Losses Fair value Other 224 6 (1) 229
Corporate Total energy 1,787 67 (6) 1,848
Consumer goods (cyclical and non-cyclical) $ 5,984 $ 6 $ (531) $ 5,459 Transportation 976 35 (5) 1,006
Banking 5,153 16 (314) 4,855 Other 446 3 (4) 445
Utilities 2,633 7 (203) 2,437 Total corporate fixed income portfolio 26,834 688 (192) 27,330
Technology 3,137 4 (298) 2,843 U.S. government and agencies 6,287 12 (26) 6,273
Communications 2,422 1 (261) 2,162 Municipal 6,130 279 (16) 6,393
Financial services 2,243 4 (176) 2,071 Foreign government 982 9 (6) 985
Capital goods 2,288 3 (197) 2,094 ABS 1,143 14 (2) 1,155
Basic industry 1,019 2 (75) 946 Total fixed income securities $ 41,376 $ 1,002 $ (242) $ 42,136
Energy
Midstream 1,725 1 (110) 1,616 In general, the gross unrealized losses are related to an increase in market yields, which may include increased
Integrated 67 — (4) 63 risk-free interest rates and wider credit spreads since the time of initial purchase. Similarly, gross unrealized gains
reflect a decrease in market yields since the time of initial purchase.
Independent/upstream 354 1 (29) 326
Other 218 — (13) 205 Equity securities by sector
Total energy 2,364 2 (156) 2,210
December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
Transportation 959 1 (73) 887
Over (under) Over (under)
Other 360 — (61) 299 ($ in millions) Cost cost Fair value Cost cost Fair value
Total corporate fixed income portfolio 28,562 46 (2,345) 26,263 Transportation $ 48 $ 19 $ 67 $ 74 $ 22 $ 96
U.S. government and agencies 8,123 6 (231) 7,898 Energy
Municipal 6,500 36 (326) 6,210 Midstream 33 (2) 31 39 7 46
Foreign government 997 — (40) 957 Integrated 39 26 65 62 8 70
ABS 1,188 4 (35) 1,157 Independent/upstream 30 12 42 44 5 49
Total fixed income securities $ 45,370 $ 92 $ (2,977) $ 42,485 Other 8 8 16 14 3 17
Total energy 110 44 154 159 23 182
Utilities 67 12 79 122 23 145
Basic Industry 57 16 73 119 30 149
Capital Goods 196 3 199 376 37 413
Other (1) 1,801 323 2,124 3,413 811 4,224
Funds
Fixed income 1,067 (84) 983 1,108 24 1,132
Equities 904 (19) 885 645 75 720
Other 3 — 3 — — —
Total funds 1,974 (103) 1,871 1,753 99 1,852
Total equity securities $ 4,253 $ 314 $ 4,567 $ 6,016 $ 1,045 $ 7,061
(1) Other is comprised of consumer goods, technology, REITs, financial services, banking, and communications sectors.
174 2022 Annual Report
175 www.allstate.comInvestments Investments
Unrealized net capital gains (losses) Gross unrealized gains (losses) on fixed income securities by type and sector
As of December 31, As of December 31, 2021
($ in millions) 2022 2021 Amortized Gross unrealized
U.S. government and agencies $ (225) $ (14) ($ in millions) cost Gains Losses Fair value
Municipal (290) 263 Corporate
Corporate (2,299) 496 Consumer goods (cyclical and non-cyclical) $ 6,817 $ 176 $ (42) $ 6,951
Foreign government (40) 3 Banking 3,975 54 (31) 3,998
ABS (31) 12 Utilities 2,009 43 (28) 2,024
Fixed income securities (2,885) 760 Technology 2,947 80 (23) 3,004
Short-term investments (1) — Communications 2,077 58 (21) 2,114
Derivatives (3) (3) Financial services 1,936 41 (14) 1,963
Equity method of accounting (“EMA”) limited partnerships 2 (1) Capital goods 2,615 75 (12) 2,678
Unrealized net capital gains and losses, pre-tax $ (2,887) $ 756 Basic industry 1,249 56 (6) 1,299
Energy
Gross unrealized gains (losses) on fixed income securities by type and sector Midstream 1,132 37 (4) 1,165
As of December 31, 2022 Integrated 119 6 — 125
Amortized Gross unrealized Independent/upstream 312 18 (1) 329
($ in millions) cost, net Gains Losses Fair value Other 224 6 (1) 229
Corporate Total energy 1,787 67 (6) 1,848
Consumer goods (cyclical and non-cyclical) $ 5,984 $ 6 $ (531) $ 5,459 Transportation 976 35 (5) 1,006
Banking 5,153 16 (314) 4,855 Other 446 3 (4) 445
Utilities 2,633 7 (203) 2,437 Total corporate fixed income portfolio 26,834 688 (192) 27,330
Technology 3,137 4 (298) 2,843 U.S. government and agencies 6,287 12 (26) 6,273
Communications 2,422 1 (261) 2,162 Municipal 6,130 279 (16) 6,393
Financial services 2,243 4 (176) 2,071 Foreign government 982 9 (6) 985
Capital goods 2,288 3 (197) 2,094 ABS 1,143 14 (2) 1,155
Basic industry 1,019 2 (75) 946 Total fixed income securities $ 41,376 $ 1,002 $ (242) $ 42,136
Energy
Midstream 1,725 1 (110) 1,616 In general, the gross unrealized losses are related to an increase in market yields, which may include increased
Integrated 67 — (4) 63 risk-free interest rates and wider credit spreads since the time of initial purchase. Similarly, gross unrealized gains
reflect a decrease in market yields since the time of initial purchase.
Independent/upstream 354 1 (29) 326
Other 218 — (13) 205 Equity securities by sector
Total energy 2,364 2 (156) 2,210
December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
Transportation 959 1 (73) 887
Over (under) Over (under)
Other 360 — (61) 299 ($ in millions) Cost cost Fair value Cost cost Fair value
Total corporate fixed income portfolio 28,562 46 (2,345) 26,263 Transportation $ 48 $ 19 $ 67 $ 74 $ 22 $ 96
U.S. government and agencies 8,123 6 (231) 7,898 Energy
Municipal 6,500 36 (326) 6,210 Midstream 33 (2) 31 39 7 46
Foreign government 997 — (40) 957 Integrated 39 26 65 62 8 70
ABS 1,188 4 (35) 1,157 Independent/upstream 30 12 42 44 5 49
Total fixed income securities $ 45,370 $ 92 $ (2,977) $ 42,485 Other 8 8 16 14 3 17
Total energy 110 44 154 159 23 182
Utilities 67 12 79 122 23 145
Basic Industry 57 16 73 119 30 149
Capital Goods 196 3 199 376 37 413
Other (1) 1,801 323 2,124 3,413 811 4,224
Funds
Fixed income 1,067 (84) 983 1,108 24 1,132
Equities 904 (19) 885 645 75 720
Other 3 — 3 — — —
Total funds 1,974 (103) 1,871 1,753 99 1,852
Total equity securities $ 4,253 $ 314 $ 4,567 $ 6,016 $ 1,045 $ 7,061
(1) Other is comprised of consumer goods, technology, REITs, financial services, banking, and communications sectors.
174 2022 Annual Report
175 www.allstate.comInvestments Investments
Net investment income Components of net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives and the related tax effect
For the years ended December 31, For the year December 31,
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Fixed income securities $ 1,255 $ 1,148 $ 1,232 Sales $ (832) $ 578 $ 974
Equity securities 132 100 78 Credit losses (54) (42) (32)
Mortgage loans 33 43 34 Valuation change of equity investments - appreciation (decline):
Limited partnership interests 985 1,973 238 Equity securities (772) 544 139
Short-term investments 82 5 17 Equity fund investments in fixed income securities (128) (24) (22)
Other investments 162 195 124 Limited partnerships (1) (160) (21) (21)
Investment income, before expense 2,649 3,464 1,723 Total valuation of equity investments (1,060) 499 96
Investment expense Valuation change and settlements of derivatives 874 49 49
Investee level expenses (68) (60) (36) Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives, pre-tax (1,072) 1,084 1,087
Securities lending expense (30) — (4) Income tax benefit (expense) 230 (237) (236)
Operating costs and expenses (148) (111) (93) Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives, after-tax $ (842) $ 847 $ 851
Total investment expense (246) (171) (133)
Net investment income $ 2,403 $ 3,293 $ 1,590 Property-Liability $ (688) $ 798 $ 774
Protection Services (40) 19 23
Property-Liability $ 2,190 $ 3,118 $ 1,421 Allstate Health and Benefits (35) 5 7
Protection Services 48 43 44 Corporate and Other (79) 25 47
Allstate Health and Benefits 69 74 78 Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives, after-tax $ (842) $ 847 $ 851
Corporate and Other 96 58 47
Net investment income $ 2,403 $ 3,293 $ 1,590 Market-based $ (1,083) $ 917 $ 1,033
Performance-based 11 167 54
Market-based $ 1,566 $ 1,429 $ 1,444 Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives, pre-tax $ (1,072) $ 1,084 $ 1,087
Performance-based 1,083 2,035 279
Investment income, before expense $ 2,649 $ 3,464 $ 1,723 (1) Relates to limited partnerships where the underlying assets are predominately public equity securities.
Net losses on investments and derivatives in 2022 Valuation change and settlements of derivatives of
Net investment income decreased 27.0% or $890 million in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to lower related primarily to decreased valuation on equity $874 million in 2022 primarily comprised of gains on
performance-based results, mainly from limited partnerships, partially offset by higher market-based fixed income investments and losses on sales of fixed income interest rate futures used to mitigate the impact of
portfolio yields. We expect market-based net investment income to increase as we continue to reinvest at market securities, partially offset by increased valuation increases in interest rates, gains on foreign currency
yields that are above the current market-based portfolio yield. change and settlements of derivatives. Net gains on contracts due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar
investments and derivatives in 2021 related primarily to and gains on equity futures used to manage exposure
Performance-based investment income
gains on sales and higher valuation on equity to equity markets. 2021 primarily comprised gains on
For the years ended December 31,
investments. foreign currency contracts due to the strengthening of
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 the U.S. dollar and gains on interest rate futures used
Sales in 2022 related primarily to sales of fixed
Private equity $ 798 $ 1,660 $ 206 to manage asset duration and reduce exposure to
income securities in connection with ongoing portfolio
Real estate 285 375 73 increases in interest rates.
management. Sales in 2021 related primarily to fixed
Total performance-based income before investee level expenses $ 1,083 $ 2,035 $ 279
income securities in connection with ongoing portfolio
Investee level expenses (1) (59) (55) (32) management and sales of real estate investments.
Total performance-based income $ 1,024 $ 1,980 $ 247
Net gains (losses) on performance-based investments and derivatives
(1) Investee level expenses include asset level operating expenses on directly held real estate and other consolidated investments For the years ended December 31,
reported in investment expense.
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Performance-based investment income decreased Performance-based investment results and income Sales $ 29 $ 111 $ 49
48.3% or $956 million in 2022 compared to strong can vary significantly between periods and are Credit losses (30) (43) (6)
results in 2021, primarily due to lower valuation influenced by economic conditions, equity market
Valuation change of equity investments (35) 71 24
increases for private equity investments in 2022. performance, comparable public company earnings
Valuation change and settlements of derivatives 47 28 (13)
multiples, capitalization rates, operating performance
Total performance-based $ 11 $ 167 $ 54
of the underlying investments and the timing of asset
sales. The company typically employs a lag in recording
Net gains on performance-based investments and derivatives in 2022 primarily related to increased valuation
and recognizing changes in valuations of limited
change and settlements of derivatives and gains on sales, partially offset by decreased valuation of equity
partnership interests due to the availability of investee
investments. 2021 primarily related to gains on sales of real estate investments, increased valuation of equity
financial statements.
investments, and gains on valuation and settlements of derivatives.
176 2022 Annual Report
177 www.allstate.comInvestments Investments
Net investment income Components of net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives and the related tax effect
For the years ended December 31, For the year December 31,
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Fixed income securities $ 1,255 $ 1,148 $ 1,232 Sales $ (832) $ 578 $ 974
Equity securities 132 100 78 Credit losses (54) (42) (32)
Mortgage loans 33 43 34 Valuation change of equity investments - appreciation (decline):
Limited partnership interests 985 1,973 238 Equity securities (772) 544 139
Short-term investments 82 5 17 Equity fund investments in fixed income securities (128) (24) (22)
Other investments 162 195 124 Limited partnerships (1) (160) (21) (21)
Investment income, before expense 2,649 3,464 1,723 Total valuation of equity investments (1,060) 499 96
Investment expense Valuation change and settlements of derivatives 874 49 49
Investee level expenses (68) (60) (36) Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives, pre-tax (1,072) 1,084 1,087
Securities lending expense (30) — (4) Income tax benefit (expense) 230 (237) (236)
Operating costs and expenses (148) (111) (93) Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives, after-tax $ (842) $ 847 $ 851
Total investment expense (246) (171) (133)
Net investment income $ 2,403 $ 3,293 $ 1,590 Property-Liability $ (688) $ 798 $ 774
Protection Services (40) 19 23
Property-Liability $ 2,190 $ 3,118 $ 1,421 Allstate Health and Benefits (35) 5 7
Protection Services 48 43 44 Corporate and Other (79) 25 47
Allstate Health and Benefits 69 74 78 Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives, after-tax $ (842) $ 847 $ 851
Corporate and Other 96 58 47
Net investment income $ 2,403 $ 3,293 $ 1,590 Market-based $ (1,083) $ 917 $ 1,033
Performance-based 11 167 54
Market-based $ 1,566 $ 1,429 $ 1,444 Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives, pre-tax $ (1,072) $ 1,084 $ 1,087
Performance-based 1,083 2,035 279
Investment income, before expense $ 2,649 $ 3,464 $ 1,723 (1) Relates to limited partnerships where the underlying assets are predominately public equity securities.
Net losses on investments and derivatives in 2022 Valuation change and settlements of derivatives of
Net investment income decreased 27.0% or $890 million in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to lower related primarily to decreased valuation on equity $874 million in 2022 primarily comprised of gains on
performance-based results, mainly from limited partnerships, partially offset by higher market-based fixed income investments and losses on sales of fixed income interest rate futures used to mitigate the impact of
portfolio yields. We expect market-based net investment income to increase as we continue to reinvest at market securities, partially offset by increased valuation increases in interest rates, gains on foreign currency
yields that are above the current market-based portfolio yield. change and settlements of derivatives. Net gains on contracts due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar
investments and derivatives in 2021 related primarily to and gains on equity futures used to manage exposure
Performance-based investment income
gains on sales and higher valuation on equity to equity markets. 2021 primarily comprised gains on
For the years ended December 31,
investments. foreign currency contracts due to the strengthening of
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 the U.S. dollar and gains on interest rate futures used
Sales in 2022 related primarily to sales of fixed
Private equity $ 798 $ 1,660 $ 206 to manage asset duration and reduce exposure to
income securities in connection with ongoing portfolio
Real estate 285 375 73 increases in interest rates.
management. Sales in 2021 related primarily to fixed
Total performance-based income before investee level expenses $ 1,083 $ 2,035 $ 279
income securities in connection with ongoing portfolio
Investee level expenses (1) (59) (55) (32) management and sales of real estate investments.
Total performance-based income $ 1,024 $ 1,980 $ 247
Net gains (losses) on performance-based investments and derivatives
(1) Investee level expenses include asset level operating expenses on directly held real estate and other consolidated investments For the years ended December 31,
reported in investment expense.
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Performance-based investment income decreased Performance-based investment results and income Sales $ 29 $ 111 $ 49
48.3% or $956 million in 2022 compared to strong can vary significantly between periods and are Credit losses (30) (43) (6)
results in 2021, primarily due to lower valuation influenced by economic conditions, equity market
Valuation change of equity investments (35) 71 24
increases for private equity investments in 2022. performance, comparable public company earnings
Valuation change and settlements of derivatives 47 28 (13)
multiples, capitalization rates, operating performance
Total performance-based $ 11 $ 167 $ 54
of the underlying investments and the timing of asset
sales. The company typically employs a lag in recording
Net gains on performance-based investments and derivatives in 2022 primarily related to increased valuation
and recognizing changes in valuations of limited
change and settlements of derivatives and gains on sales, partially offset by decreased valuation of equity
partnership interests due to the availability of investee
investments. 2021 primarily related to gains on sales of real estate investments, increased valuation of equity
financial statements.
investments, and gains on valuation and settlements of derivatives.
176 2022 Annual Report
177 www.allstate.comMarket Risk Market Risk
Market Risk For our issued debt, we monitor market interest Equity price risk is the risk that we will incur losses
rates and evaluate refinancing opportunities as due to adverse changes in the levels of equity indices,
Market risk is the risk that we will incur losses due We use widely-accepted quantitative and maturity dates approach. To mitigate this risk, we the value of individual stocks, or private market
to adverse changes in interest rates, credit spreads, qualitative approaches to measure, monitor and ladder the maturity dates of our debt. For our issued valuations related to our limited partnership interests.
equity prices, commodity prices or foreign currency manage market risk. We evaluate our market risk noncumulative perpetual preferred stock, we monitor
exchange rates. Adverse changes to these rates and exposure using multiple measures including but not market dividend rates and evaluate opportunities to Equity investments(1) As of December 31, 2022, we
prices may occur due to changes in fiscal policy, limited to: redeem or refinance on or after specified dates. For held $4.06 billion in equity investments that comprise
inflation, the economic climate, the liquidity of a further detail regarding our debt and our preferred equity securities, excluding those with fixed income
market or market segment, insolvency or financial • Duration, a measure of the price sensitivity of assets stock, see Note 13 of the consolidated financial securities as their underlying investments, and
distress of key market makers or participants or and liabilities to changes in interest rates statements and the Capital Resources and Liquidity including limited partnership interests where the
changes in market perceptions of credit worthiness or • Value-at-risk, a statistical estimate that the change in section of this Item. underlying assets are predominately public equity
risk tolerance. Our primary market risk exposures are fair value of a portfolio will exceed a certain amount securities, compared to $6.67 billion as of December 31,
over a given time horizon, at a specified probability
to changes in interest rates, credit spreads and equity Our assessment of interest rate risk reflects the 2021.
prices, and to a lesser extent, foreign currency • Scenario analysis, an estimate of the potential changes effect of changing risk-free interest rates on interest-
exchange rates. We also have direct and indirect i h n y t p h o e t h fa e i t r i c v a a l l u m e a o rk f e a t p c o o r n t d fo it li i o o n t s h a d t e c fi o n u e l d d b o y c c c u h r a u n n g d e e s r t o sensitive assets, including investments with callable or Change in fair value of equity investments (1) (2)
exposure to commodity price changes through our multiple market risk factors: interest rates, credit prepayable features. As of December 31, 2022, the As of December 31,
diversified investments in timber, agriculture, spreads, equity prices or currency exchange rates fixed income portfolio duration(1) was 3.4 compared to ($ in millions) 2022 2021
infrastructure and energy primarily held in limited • Sensitivity analysis, an estimate of the potential 3.8 as of December 31, 2021.
-10% change in equity valuations
partnership interests and consolidated subsidiaries. changes in the fair value of a portfolio that could occur $ (402) $ (670)
using hypothetical shocks to a market risk factor Change in fair value of interest-sensitive assets (1) (2)
The active management of market risk is integral As of December 31, (1) Includes the effects of equity derivatives.
to our results of operations. We may use the following T an h a e l y s s e i l s e c s t h io o n u l o d f n m o e t a b s e u c re o s n s u t s r e u d ed in a o s u o r u s r e p n r s e i d tiv ic it t y io n of ($ in millions) 2022 2021 (2)Represents an immediate change in equity valuations for
approaches to manage exposure to market risk within investments.
future market events, but only as an illustration of the -100 bps change $ 1,549 $ 1,625
defined tolerance ranges:
potential effect of such an event +100 bps change (1,471) (1,638) We periodically use derivatives to reduce equity
1) Rebalance existing asset or liability portfolios +200 bps change (2,864) (3,215) price risk or to adjust our equity risk profile. Derivatives
2) Change the type of investments purchased in the In general, we establish investment portfolio asset provide an offset to changes in equity market values.
allocation and market risk limits based upon a (1) Includes the effects of interest rate derivatives and any
future
combination of these measures. The asset allocation call features associated with the securities. Limited partnership interests As of December 31,
3) Use derivative instruments to modify the market limits place restrictions on the total funds that may be (2)Represents an immediate, parallel increase or decrease 2022, we held $7.64 billion in limited partnership
risk characteristics of existing assets and liabilities invested within an asset class. Comprehensive day-to- based on information and assumptions used in the interests excluding those limited partnership interests
or assets expected to be purchased day management of market risk within defined duration calculations. where the underlying assets are predominately public
Overview In formulating and implementing tolerance ranges occurs as portfolio managers buy and To the extent that conditions differ from the equity securities compared to $7.26 billion as of
guidelines for investing funds, we seek to earn sell within their respective markets based upon the assumptions we used in these calculations, duration December 31, 2021. These illiquid investments are
attractive risk-adjusted returns that enhance our ability acceptable boundaries established by investment and rate shock measures could be significantly primarily comprised of private equity and real estate
to offer competitive prices to customers while policies. Although we apply a similar overall philosophy impacted. These calculations may not fully capture the funds, with valuation changes typically reflecting the
contributing to stable profits and long-term capital to market risk, the underlying business frameworks effect of non-parallel changes in the term structure of idiosyncratic performance of the underlying asset.
growth. Accordingly, our investment decisions and and the accounting and regulatory environments may interest rates or large changes in interest rates.
Change in fair value of limited partnership
objectives are informed by underlying risks. Investment differ between our products and therefore affect interests (1)
p m o a li r c k i e e t s a d n e d fi n o e th t e h r e i n o v v e e s r t a m ll e fr n a t m r e is w ks o , r k in f c o lu r d m in a g n aging i e n x v p e e s r t i m en e c n e t m de a c y i s d io if n fe s r a fr n o d m ri s th k e p r a e r s a u m lt e s t o er f s t . h O e u s r e a n c s t it u i a v l i ty loss C d r u e e d t i o t s a p d r v e e a r d se r i c s h k a i n s g t e h s e i r n is c k r e th d a it t s w p e re w ad ill s i ncur a As of December 31,
accountability and controls over risk management measurements provided below. (“spreads”). A credit spread is the additional yield on ($ in millions) 2022 2021
fixed income securities and loans above the risk-free -10% change in private market
activities. Subsidiaries that conduct investment
Interest rate risk is the risk that we will incur a rate that market participants require to compensate valuations $ (764) $ (726)
activities follow policies that have been approved by
loss due to adverse changes in risk-free interest rates. them for assuming credit, liquidity or prepayment risks.
their respective boards of directors and which specify This risk arises from many of our primary activities, as This risk arises from many of our primary activities, as (1) Represents an immediate change in the value of limited
the investment limits and strategies that are we invest substantial funds in interest-sensitive assets. we invest substantial funds in spread-sensitive fixed partnership interests.
appropriate given the liquidity, surplus, product profile
Changes in interest rates can have favorable and income assets. We assess credit spread risk by For limited partnership interests, quarterly
and regulatory requirements of the subsidiary.
unfavorable effects on our results. For example, evaluating spread duration which measures the price changes in fair values may not be highly correlated to
Executive oversight of investment activities is
increases in rates can improve investment income, but sensitivity of the assets to changes in spreads. equity indices in the short term and changes in value of
conducted primarily through the subsidiaries’ boards of
decrease the fair value of our fixed income securities these investments are generally recognized on a three-
directors and legal entity investment committees. The portfolio which may result in sales of assets at losses. As of December 31, 2022, the spread duration(1) month delay due to the availability of the related
Enterprise Risk and Return Council (“ERRC”) oversees Decreases in rates could increase the fair value of our was 4.0 compared to 4.6 as of December 31, 2021. investee financial statements.
the aggregate risk of Allstate and its subsidiaries.
fixed income securities portfolio while decreasing
Working in conjunction with the board or the investment income due to reinvestment at lower Change in fair value of spread-sensitive assets (1) (2)
investment committee of each subsidiary, as market yields and accelerated pay-downs and As of December 31,
applicable, the ERRC evaluates the risk tolerance of prepayments of certain investments. ($ in millions) 2022 2021
each subsidiary and determines the aggregate risk
tolerance of the enterprise. +100 bps change $ (1,462) $ (1,767)
(1) Includes the effects of credit derivatives and any call
features associated with the securities.
(2)Represents an immediate, parallel increase based on
information and assumptions used in the spread duration
calculations.
178 2022 Annual Report
179 www.allstate.comMarket Risk Market Risk
Market Risk For our issued debt, we monitor market interest Equity price risk is the risk that we will incur losses
rates and evaluate refinancing opportunities as due to adverse changes in the levels of equity indices,
Market risk is the risk that we will incur losses due We use widely-accepted quantitative and maturity dates approach. To mitigate this risk, we the value of individual stocks, or private market
to adverse changes in interest rates, credit spreads, qualitative approaches to measure, monitor and ladder the maturity dates of our debt. For our issued valuations related to our limited partnership interests.
equity prices, commodity prices or foreign currency manage market risk. We evaluate our market risk noncumulative perpetual preferred stock, we monitor
exchange rates. Adverse changes to these rates and exposure using multiple measures including but not market dividend rates and evaluate opportunities to Equity investments(1) As of December 31, 2022, we
prices may occur due to changes in fiscal policy, limited to: redeem or refinance on or after specified dates. For held $4.06 billion in equity investments that comprise
inflation, the economic climate, the liquidity of a further detail regarding our debt and our preferred equity securities, excluding those with fixed income
market or market segment, insolvency or financial • Duration, a measure of the price sensitivity of assets stock, see Note 13 of the consolidated financial securities as their underlying investments, and
distress of key market makers or participants or and liabilities to changes in interest rates statements and the Capital Resources and Liquidity including limited partnership interests where the
changes in market perceptions of credit worthiness or • Value-at-risk, a statistical estimate that the change in section of this Item. underlying assets are predominately public equity
risk tolerance. Our primary market risk exposures are fair value of a portfolio will exceed a certain amount securities, compared to $6.67 billion as of December 31,
over a given time horizon, at a specified probability
to changes in interest rates, credit spreads and equity Our assessment of interest rate risk reflects the 2021.
prices, and to a lesser extent, foreign currency • Scenario analysis, an estimate of the potential changes effect of changing risk-free interest rates on interest-
exchange rates. We also have direct and indirect i h n y t p h o e t h fa e i t r i c v a a l l u m e a o rk f e a t p c o o r n t d fo it li i o o n t s h a d t e c fi o n u e l d d b o y c c c u h r a u n n g d e e s r t o sensitive assets, including investments with callable or Change in fair value of equity investments (1) (2)
exposure to commodity price changes through our multiple market risk factors: interest rates, credit prepayable features. As of December 31, 2022, the As of December 31,
diversified investments in timber, agriculture, spreads, equity prices or currency exchange rates fixed income portfolio duration(1) was 3.4 compared to ($ in millions) 2022 2021
infrastructure and energy primarily held in limited • Sensitivity analysis, an estimate of the potential 3.8 as of December 31, 2021.
-10% change in equity valuations
partnership interests and consolidated subsidiaries. changes in the fair value of a portfolio that could occur $ (402) $ (670)
using hypothetical shocks to a market risk factor Change in fair value of interest-sensitive assets (1) (2)
The active management of market risk is integral As of December 31, (1) Includes the effects of equity derivatives.
to our results of operations. We may use the following T an h a e l y s s e i l s e c s t h io o n u l o d f n m o e t a b s e u c re o s n s u t s r e u d ed in a o s u o r u s r e p n r s e i d tiv ic it t y io n of ($ in millions) 2022 2021 (2)Represents an immediate change in equity valuations for
approaches to manage exposure to market risk within investments.
future market events, but only as an illustration of the -100 bps change $ 1,549 $ 1,625
defined tolerance ranges:
potential effect of such an event +100 bps change (1,471) (1,638) We periodically use derivatives to reduce equity
1) Rebalance existing asset or liability portfolios +200 bps change (2,864) (3,215) price risk or to adjust our equity risk profile. Derivatives
2) Change the type of investments purchased in the In general, we establish investment portfolio asset provide an offset to changes in equity market values.
allocation and market risk limits based upon a (1) Includes the effects of interest rate derivatives and any
future
combination of these measures. The asset allocation call features associated with the securities. Limited partnership interests As of December 31,
3) Use derivative instruments to modify the market limits place restrictions on the total funds that may be (2)Represents an immediate, parallel increase or decrease 2022, we held $7.64 billion in limited partnership
risk characteristics of existing assets and liabilities invested within an asset class. Comprehensive day-to- based on information and assumptions used in the interests excluding those limited partnership interests
or assets expected to be purchased day management of market risk within defined duration calculations. where the underlying assets are predominately public
Overview In formulating and implementing tolerance ranges occurs as portfolio managers buy and To the extent that conditions differ from the equity securities compared to $7.26 billion as of
guidelines for investing funds, we seek to earn sell within their respective markets based upon the assumptions we used in these calculations, duration December 31, 2021. These illiquid investments are
attractive risk-adjusted returns that enhance our ability acceptable boundaries established by investment and rate shock measures could be significantly primarily comprised of private equity and real estate
to offer competitive prices to customers while policies. Although we apply a similar overall philosophy impacted. These calculations may not fully capture the funds, with valuation changes typically reflecting the
contributing to stable profits and long-term capital to market risk, the underlying business frameworks effect of non-parallel changes in the term structure of idiosyncratic performance of the underlying asset.
growth. Accordingly, our investment decisions and and the accounting and regulatory environments may interest rates or large changes in interest rates.
Change in fair value of limited partnership
objectives are informed by underlying risks. Investment differ between our products and therefore affect interests (1)
p m o a li r c k i e e t s a d n e d fi n o e th t e h r e i n o v v e e s r t a m ll e fr n a t m r e is w ks o , r k in f c o lu r d m in a g n aging i e n x v p e e s r t i m en e c n e t m de a c y i s d io if n fe s r a fr n o d m ri s th k e p r a e r s a u m lt e s t o er f s t . h O e u s r e a n c s t it u i a v l i ty loss C d r u e e d t i o t s a p d r v e e a r d se r i c s h k a i n s g t e h s e i r n is c k r e th d a it t s w p e re w ad ill s i ncur a As of December 31,
accountability and controls over risk management measurements provided below. (“spreads”). A credit spread is the additional yield on ($ in millions) 2022 2021
fixed income securities and loans above the risk-free -10% change in private market
activities. Subsidiaries that conduct investment
Interest rate risk is the risk that we will incur a rate that market participants require to compensate valuations $ (764) $ (726)
activities follow policies that have been approved by
loss due to adverse changes in risk-free interest rates. them for assuming credit, liquidity or prepayment risks.
their respective boards of directors and which specify This risk arises from many of our primary activities, as This risk arises from many of our primary activities, as (1) Represents an immediate change in the value of limited
the investment limits and strategies that are we invest substantial funds in interest-sensitive assets. we invest substantial funds in spread-sensitive fixed partnership interests.
appropriate given the liquidity, surplus, product profile
Changes in interest rates can have favorable and income assets. We assess credit spread risk by For limited partnership interests, quarterly
and regulatory requirements of the subsidiary.
unfavorable effects on our results. For example, evaluating spread duration which measures the price changes in fair values may not be highly correlated to
Executive oversight of investment activities is
increases in rates can improve investment income, but sensitivity of the assets to changes in spreads. equity indices in the short term and changes in value of
conducted primarily through the subsidiaries’ boards of
decrease the fair value of our fixed income securities these investments are generally recognized on a three-
directors and legal entity investment committees. The portfolio which may result in sales of assets at losses. As of December 31, 2022, the spread duration(1) month delay due to the availability of the related
Enterprise Risk and Return Council (“ERRC”) oversees Decreases in rates could increase the fair value of our was 4.0 compared to 4.6 as of December 31, 2021. investee financial statements.
the aggregate risk of Allstate and its subsidiaries.
fixed income securities portfolio while decreasing
Working in conjunction with the board or the investment income due to reinvestment at lower Change in fair value of spread-sensitive assets (1) (2)
investment committee of each subsidiary, as market yields and accelerated pay-downs and As of December 31,
applicable, the ERRC evaluates the risk tolerance of prepayments of certain investments. ($ in millions) 2022 2021
each subsidiary and determines the aggregate risk
tolerance of the enterprise. +100 bps change $ (1,462) $ (1,767)
(1) Includes the effects of credit derivatives and any call
features associated with the securities.
(2)Represents an immediate, parallel increase based on
information and assumptions used in the spread duration
calculations.
178 2022 Annual Report
179 www.allstate.comMarket Risk Capital Resources and Liquidity
Foreign currency exchange rate risk is the risk As of December 31, 2022, we had $3.10 billion in Capital Resources and Liquidity
that we will incur economic losses due to adverse foreign currency denominated investments, including
changes in foreign currency exchange rates. This risk the effects of foreign currency derivative contracts, Capital resources consist of shareholders’ equity and debt, representing funds deployed or available to be
primarily arises from our foreign equity investments, and $1.14 billion net investment in our foreign deployed to support business operations or for general corporate purposes.
including common stocks, limited partnership subsidiaries, primarily related to our Canada
Capital resources
interests, and our Canada, Northern Ireland and India operations. These amounts were $3.79 billion and $1.30
As of December 31,
operations. We use foreign currency derivative billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2021.
contracts to partially offset this risk. ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Preferred stock, common stock, treasury stock, retained income and other
Change in fair value of foreign currency shareholders’ equity items $ 19,864 $ 24,524 $ 26,913
denominated investments(1) Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income (2,389) 655 3,304
As of December 31, Total Allstate shareholders’ equity 17,475 25,179 30,217
($ in millions) 2022 2021 Debt 7,964 7,976 7,825
-10% change in foreign currency Total capital resources $ 25,439 $ 33,155 $ 38,042
exchange rates $ (310) $ (379) Ratio of debt to Allstate shareholders’ equity 45.6 % 31.7 % 25.9 %
-10% change in net investments Ratio of debt to capital resources 31.3 % 24.1 % 20.6 %
in foreign subsidiaries (114) (130)
Allstate shareholders’ equity decreased in 2022, Since 1995, we have acquired 789 million shares of
(1) Represents an immediate, simultaneous depreciation in
primarily due to net unrealized capital losses on our common stock at a cost of $42.80 billion, primarily
each of the foreign currency exchange rates to which we
investments in 2022 compared to gains at 2021, as part of various stock repurchase programs. We have
are exposed compared to the U.S. dollar, including the
effects of foreign currency derivative contracts and common share repurchases, a net loss and dividends reissued 154 million common shares since 1995,
excludes the offset from liabilities in foreign currencies. paid to shareholders. In 2022, we paid dividends of primarily associated with our equity incentive plans,
$926 million and $105 million related to our common the 1999 acquisition of American Heritage Life
and preferred shares, respectively. Allstate Investment Corporation and the 2001 redemption of
shareholders’ equity decreased in 2021, primarily due certain mandatorily redeemable preferred securities.
to loss on disposition from the sales of ALIC, ALNY and Since 1995, total common shares outstanding has
certain affiliates, common share repurchases, decreased by 635 million shares or 70.7%, primarily due
decreased net unrealized capital gains on investments, to our repurchase programs.
partially offset by net income. In 2021, we paid
Common shareholder dividends On January 3,
dividends of $885 million and $114 million related to our
2022, April 1, 2022, July 1, 2022 and October 3, 2022,
common and preferred shares, respectively.
we paid a common shareholder dividend of $0.81,
Common share repurchases As of December 31, $0.85, $0.85 and $0.85, respectively. On November 18,
2022, there was $802 million remaining in the $5.00 2022, we declared a common shareholder dividend of
billion program. We expect the program to be $0.85, payable on January 3, 2023.
completed by September 30, 2023, as we moderate
the pace of share repurchases.
During 2022, we repurchased 19.7 million common
shares, or 7.0% of total common shares outstanding as
of December 31, 2021, for $2.50 billion.
180 2022 Annual Report
181 www.allstate.comMarket Risk Capital Resources and Liquidity
Foreign currency exchange rate risk is the risk As of December 31, 2022, we had $3.10 billion in Capital Resources and Liquidity
that we will incur economic losses due to adverse foreign currency denominated investments, including
changes in foreign currency exchange rates. This risk the effects of foreign currency derivative contracts, Capital resources consist of shareholders’ equity and debt, representing funds deployed or available to be
primarily arises from our foreign equity investments, and $1.14 billion net investment in our foreign deployed to support business operations or for general corporate purposes.
including common stocks, limited partnership subsidiaries, primarily related to our Canada
Capital resources
interests, and our Canada, Northern Ireland and India operations. These amounts were $3.79 billion and $1.30
As of December 31,
operations. We use foreign currency derivative billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2021.
contracts to partially offset this risk. ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Preferred stock, common stock, treasury stock, retained income and other
Change in fair value of foreign currency shareholders’ equity items $ 19,864 $ 24,524 $ 26,913
denominated investments(1) Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income (2,389) 655 3,304
As of December 31, Total Allstate shareholders’ equity 17,475 25,179 30,217
($ in millions) 2022 2021 Debt 7,964 7,976 7,825
-10% change in foreign currency Total capital resources $ 25,439 $ 33,155 $ 38,042
exchange rates $ (310) $ (379) Ratio of debt to Allstate shareholders’ equity 45.6 % 31.7 % 25.9 %
-10% change in net investments Ratio of debt to capital resources 31.3 % 24.1 % 20.6 %
in foreign subsidiaries (114) (130)
Allstate shareholders’ equity decreased in 2022, Since 1995, we have acquired 789 million shares of
(1) Represents an immediate, simultaneous depreciation in
primarily due to net unrealized capital losses on our common stock at a cost of $42.80 billion, primarily
each of the foreign currency exchange rates to which we
investments in 2022 compared to gains at 2021, as part of various stock repurchase programs. We have
are exposed compared to the U.S. dollar, including the
effects of foreign currency derivative contracts and common share repurchases, a net loss and dividends reissued 154 million common shares since 1995,
excludes the offset from liabilities in foreign currencies. paid to shareholders. In 2022, we paid dividends of primarily associated with our equity incentive plans,
$926 million and $105 million related to our common the 1999 acquisition of American Heritage Life
and preferred shares, respectively. Allstate Investment Corporation and the 2001 redemption of
shareholders’ equity decreased in 2021, primarily due certain mandatorily redeemable preferred securities.
to loss on disposition from the sales of ALIC, ALNY and Since 1995, total common shares outstanding has
certain affiliates, common share repurchases, decreased by 635 million shares or 70.7%, primarily due
decreased net unrealized capital gains on investments, to our repurchase programs.
partially offset by net income. In 2021, we paid
Common shareholder dividends On January 3,
dividends of $885 million and $114 million related to our
2022, April 1, 2022, July 1, 2022 and October 3, 2022,
common and preferred shares, respectively.
we paid a common shareholder dividend of $0.81,
Common share repurchases As of December 31, $0.85, $0.85 and $0.85, respectively. On November 18,
2022, there was $802 million remaining in the $5.00 2022, we declared a common shareholder dividend of
billion program. We expect the program to be $0.85, payable on January 3, 2023.
completed by September 30, 2023, as we moderate
the pace of share repurchases.
During 2022, we repurchased 19.7 million common
shares, or 7.0% of total common shares outstanding as
of December 31, 2021, for $2.50 billion.
180 2022 Annual Report
181 www.allstate.comCapital Resources and Liquidity Capital Resources and Liquidity
Financial ratings and strength Liquidity sources and uses Our potential sources and uses of funds principally include the following activities below.
Senior long-term debt, commercial paper and insurance financial strength ratings Activities for potential sources of funds
As of December 31, 2022
Property- Protection Allstate Health Corporate
S&P Global Liability Services and Benefits and Other
Moody’s Ratings A.M. Best Receipt of insurance premiums ü ü ü
The Allstate Corporation (debt) A3 A- a Recurring service fees ü ü ü
The Allstate Corporation (short-term issuer) P-2 A-2 AMB-1+ Contractholder fund deposits ü
Allstate Insurance Company (insurance financial strength) Aa3 AA- A+
Reinsurance and indemnification program
ü ü ü
recoveries
Our ratings are influenced by many factors which writes auto and homeowners insurance in New Receipts of principal, interest and dividends
including our operating and financial performance, Jersey, and the A+ rating of North Light, our excess on investments ü ü ü ü
asset quality, liquidity, overall portfolio mix, financial and surplus lines carrier. The outlook for both the ANJ Sales of investments ü ü ü ü
leverage (i.e., debt), exposure to risks such as and North Light ratings is stable. ANJ also has a
Funds from securities lending, commercial
catastrophes and the current level of operating Financial Stability Rating® of A" from Demotech, which paper and line of credit agreements ü ü
leverage. The preferred stock and subordinated was affirmed in December 2022. In August 2022, A.M. Intercompany loans ü ü ü ü
debentures are viewed as having a common equity Best affirmed the B+ rating of CKIC, which underwrites
Capital contributions from parent ü ü ü ü
component by certain rating agencies and are given personal lines property insurance in Florida. CKIC also
Dividends or return of capital from
equity credit up to a pre-determined limit in our capital has a Financial Stability Rating of A’ from Demotech ü ü ü ü
subsidiaries
structure as determined by their respective that was affirmed in December 2022. ANJ, North Light
methodologies. These respective methodologies and CKIC do not have support agreements with AIC. Tax refunds/settlements ü ü ü ü
consider the existence of certain terms and features in Funds from periodic issuance of additional
ü
Allstate’s domestic property and casualty and life securities
the instruments such as the noncumulative dividend
feature in the preferred stock. insurance subsidiaries prepare their statutory-basis Receipt of intercompany settlements related
ü
financial statements in conformity with accounting to employee benefit plans
The Allstate Corporation (the “Corporation”) and practices prescribed or permitted by the insurance
Activities for potential uses of funds
Allstate Insurance Company (“AIC”) In May 2022, department of the applicable state of domicile.
Moody’s affirmed The Allstate Corporation’s (the Statutory surplus is a measure that is often used as a Property- Protection Allstate Health Corporate
“Corporation’s”) debt and short-term issuer ratings of basis for determining dividend paying capacity, Liability Services and Benefits and Other
A3 and P-2, respectively, and the insurance financial operating leverage and premium growth capacity, and Payment of claims and related expenses ü ü
strength rating of Aa3 for AIC. The outlook for the it is also reviewed by rating agencies in determining Payment of contract benefits, surrenders and
ü
ratings is stable. their ratings. withdrawals
Reinsurance cessions and indemnification
In November 2022, S&P affirmed the Corporation’s The property and casualty business is comprised program payments ü ü ü
debt and short-term issuer ratings of A- and A-2, of 58 insurance companies as of December 31, 2022,
Operating costs and expenses ü ü ü ü
respectively, and the insurance financial strength each of which has individual company dividend
rating of AA- for AIC. The outlook for the ratings limitations. As of December 31, 2022, total statutory Purchase of investments ü ü ü ü
changed from stable to negative. surplus is $15.28 billion compared to $21.51 billion as of Repayment of securities lending, commercial ü ü
paper and line of credit agreements
December 31, 2021. Property and casualty subsidiaries
In August 2022, A.M. Best affirmed the surplus was $15.00 billion as of December 31, 2022, Payment or repayment of intercompany loans ü ü ü ü
Corporation’s debt and short-term issuer ratings of a compared to $21.19 billion as of December 31, 2021. Capital contributions to subsidiaries ü ü ü ü
and AMB-1+, respectively, and the insurance financial
Life, accident and health insurance subsidiaries surplus Dividends or return of capital to
strength rating of A+ for AIC. The outlook for the ü ü ü ü
was $279 million as of December 31, 2022, compared to shareholders/parent company
ratings is stable.
$322 million as of December 31, 2021. Tax payments/settlements ü ü ü ü
American Heritage Life (“AHL”) In August 2022, Common share repurchases ü
The NAIC has developed financial relationships or
A.M. Best affirmed the insurance financial strength Debt service expenses and repayment ü ü
tests known as the Insurance Regulatory Information
rating of A+ for AHL. The outlook for the rating is System to assist state insurance regulators in Payments related to employee benefit plans ü ü ü ü
stable. monitoring the financial condition of insurance Payments for acquisitions ü ü ü ü
Other property and casualty companies We have companies and identifying companies that require
distinct and separately capitalized groups of special attention or actions by state insurance Contractual obligations and commitments We expenses, including liabilities for collateral and
subsidiaries licensed to sell property and casualty regulators. The NAIC analyzes financial data provided have short-term and long-term contractual obligations operating leases, and net unrecognized tax benefits.
insurance that maintain separate group ratings. The by insurance companies using prescribed ratios, each and commitments. We manage our short-term liquidity
We actively manage our financial position and
ratings of these groups are influenced by the risks that with defined “usual ranges”. Additional regulatory position to ensure the availability of a sufficient
liquidity levels in light of changing market, economic,
relate specifically to each group. Many mortgage scrutiny may occur if a company’s ratios fall outside the amount of liquid assets to extinguish short-term
and business conditions. Liquidity is managed at both
companies require property owners to have insurance usual ranges for four or more of the ratios. Two of our liabilities as they come due in the normal course of
the entity and enterprise level across the Company and
from an insurance carrier with a secure financial domestic insurance companies have more than four business, including utilizing potential sources of
is assessed on both base and stressed level liquidity
strength rating from an accredited rating agency. In ratios outside the usual ranges. liquidity. Long-term obligations include known
needs. We believe we have sufficient liquidity to meet
August 2022, A.M. Best affirmed the A rating of ANJ, contractual commitments that require cash needs
these needs. Additionally, we have existing
beyond 12 months.
intercompany agreements in place that facilitate
Short-term contractual obligations are typically liquidity management across the Company to enhance
settled with cash or short-term investments and flexibility.
operating cash flows. Most of these obligations are
As of December 31, 2022, we held $12.66 billion of
paid within one year. These include unconditional
cash, U.S. government and agencies fixed income
purchase obligations, other liabilities and accrued
securities, and public equity securities which we would
182 2022 Annual Report
183 www.allstate.comCapital Resources and Liquidity Capital Resources and Liquidity
Financial ratings and strength Liquidity sources and uses Our potential sources and uses of funds principally include the following activities below.
Senior long-term debt, commercial paper and insurance financial strength ratings Activities for potential sources of funds
As of December 31, 2022
Property- Protection Allstate Health Corporate
S&P Global Liability Services and Benefits and Other
Moody’s Ratings A.M. Best Receipt of insurance premiums ü ü ü
The Allstate Corporation (debt) A3 A- a Recurring service fees ü ü ü
The Allstate Corporation (short-term issuer) P-2 A-2 AMB-1+ Contractholder fund deposits ü
Allstate Insurance Company (insurance financial strength) Aa3 AA- A+
Reinsurance and indemnification program
ü ü ü
recoveries
Our ratings are influenced by many factors which writes auto and homeowners insurance in New Receipts of principal, interest and dividends
including our operating and financial performance, Jersey, and the A+ rating of North Light, our excess on investments ü ü ü ü
asset quality, liquidity, overall portfolio mix, financial and surplus lines carrier. The outlook for both the ANJ Sales of investments ü ü ü ü
leverage (i.e., debt), exposure to risks such as and North Light ratings is stable. ANJ also has a
Funds from securities lending, commercial
catastrophes and the current level of operating Financial Stability Rating® of A" from Demotech, which paper and line of credit agreements ü ü
leverage. The preferred stock and subordinated was affirmed in December 2022. In August 2022, A.M. Intercompany loans ü ü ü ü
debentures are viewed as having a common equity Best affirmed the B+ rating of CKIC, which underwrites
Capital contributions from parent ü ü ü ü
component by certain rating agencies and are given personal lines property insurance in Florida. CKIC also
Dividends or return of capital from
equity credit up to a pre-determined limit in our capital has a Financial Stability Rating of A’ from Demotech ü ü ü ü
subsidiaries
structure as determined by their respective that was affirmed in December 2022. ANJ, North Light
methodologies. These respective methodologies and CKIC do not have support agreements with AIC. Tax refunds/settlements ü ü ü ü
consider the existence of certain terms and features in Funds from periodic issuance of additional
ü
Allstate’s domestic property and casualty and life securities
the instruments such as the noncumulative dividend
feature in the preferred stock. insurance subsidiaries prepare their statutory-basis Receipt of intercompany settlements related
ü
financial statements in conformity with accounting to employee benefit plans
The Allstate Corporation (the “Corporation”) and practices prescribed or permitted by the insurance
Activities for potential uses of funds
Allstate Insurance Company (“AIC”) In May 2022, department of the applicable state of domicile.
Moody’s affirmed The Allstate Corporation’s (the Statutory surplus is a measure that is often used as a Property- Protection Allstate Health Corporate
“Corporation’s”) debt and short-term issuer ratings of basis for determining dividend paying capacity, Liability Services and Benefits and Other
A3 and P-2, respectively, and the insurance financial operating leverage and premium growth capacity, and Payment of claims and related expenses ü ü
strength rating of Aa3 for AIC. The outlook for the it is also reviewed by rating agencies in determining Payment of contract benefits, surrenders and
ü
ratings is stable. their ratings. withdrawals
Reinsurance cessions and indemnification
In November 2022, S&P affirmed the Corporation’s The property and casualty business is comprised program payments ü ü ü
debt and short-term issuer ratings of A- and A-2, of 58 insurance companies as of December 31, 2022,
Operating costs and expenses ü ü ü ü
respectively, and the insurance financial strength each of which has individual company dividend
rating of AA- for AIC. The outlook for the ratings limitations. As of December 31, 2022, total statutory Purchase of investments ü ü ü ü
changed from stable to negative. surplus is $15.28 billion compared to $21.51 billion as of Repayment of securities lending, commercial ü ü
paper and line of credit agreements
December 31, 2021. Property and casualty subsidiaries
In August 2022, A.M. Best affirmed the surplus was $15.00 billion as of December 31, 2022, Payment or repayment of intercompany loans ü ü ü ü
Corporation’s debt and short-term issuer ratings of a compared to $21.19 billion as of December 31, 2021. Capital contributions to subsidiaries ü ü ü ü
and AMB-1+, respectively, and the insurance financial
Life, accident and health insurance subsidiaries surplus Dividends or return of capital to
strength rating of A+ for AIC. The outlook for the ü ü ü ü
was $279 million as of December 31, 2022, compared to shareholders/parent company
ratings is stable.
$322 million as of December 31, 2021. Tax payments/settlements ü ü ü ü
American Heritage Life (“AHL”) In August 2022, Common share repurchases ü
The NAIC has developed financial relationships or
A.M. Best affirmed the insurance financial strength Debt service expenses and repayment ü ü
tests known as the Insurance Regulatory Information
rating of A+ for AHL. The outlook for the rating is System to assist state insurance regulators in Payments related to employee benefit plans ü ü ü ü
stable. monitoring the financial condition of insurance Payments for acquisitions ü ü ü ü
Other property and casualty companies We have companies and identifying companies that require
distinct and separately capitalized groups of special attention or actions by state insurance Contractual obligations and commitments We expenses, including liabilities for collateral and
subsidiaries licensed to sell property and casualty regulators. The NAIC analyzes financial data provided have short-term and long-term contractual obligations operating leases, and net unrecognized tax benefits.
insurance that maintain separate group ratings. The by insurance companies using prescribed ratios, each and commitments. We manage our short-term liquidity
We actively manage our financial position and
ratings of these groups are influenced by the risks that with defined “usual ranges”. Additional regulatory position to ensure the availability of a sufficient
liquidity levels in light of changing market, economic,
relate specifically to each group. Many mortgage scrutiny may occur if a company’s ratios fall outside the amount of liquid assets to extinguish short-term
and business conditions. Liquidity is managed at both
companies require property owners to have insurance usual ranges for four or more of the ratios. Two of our liabilities as they come due in the normal course of
the entity and enterprise level across the Company and
from an insurance carrier with a secure financial domestic insurance companies have more than four business, including utilizing potential sources of
is assessed on both base and stressed level liquidity
strength rating from an accredited rating agency. In ratios outside the usual ranges. liquidity. Long-term obligations include known
needs. We believe we have sufficient liquidity to meet
August 2022, A.M. Best affirmed the A rating of ANJ, contractual commitments that require cash needs
these needs. Additionally, we have existing
beyond 12 months.
intercompany agreements in place that facilitate
Short-term contractual obligations are typically liquidity management across the Company to enhance
settled with cash or short-term investments and flexibility.
operating cash flows. Most of these obligations are
As of December 31, 2022, we held $12.66 billion of
paid within one year. These include unconditional
cash, U.S. government and agencies fixed income
purchase obligations, other liabilities and accrued
securities, and public equity securities which we would
182 2022 Annual Report
183 www.allstate.comCapital Resources and Liquidity Capital Resources and Liquidity
expect to be able to liquidate within one week. In billion, less dividends paid during the preceding twelve benchmark rate was amended from London Reserves for property and casualty insurance
addition, we regularly estimate how much of the total months measured at that point in time. For the year Interbank Offered Rate to Secured Overnight claims and claims expense represent estimated
portfolio, which includes high quality corporate fixed ended December 31, 2022, the total amount of Financing Rate. The facility is fully subscribed amounts necessary to settle all outstanding claims,
income and municipal holdings, can be reasonably dividends AIC paid remained under the maximum among 11 lenders with the largest commitment including claims that have been IBNR as of the balance
liquidated within one quarter. These estimates are amount of $5.51 billion allowed in 2022. Notification being $95 million. The commitments of the lenders sheet date. Estimated timing of payments for reserves
subject to considerable uncertainty associated with and approval of intercompany lending activities are are several and no lender is responsible for any is based on our historical experience and our
evolving market conditions. As of December 31, 2022, also required by the Illinois Department of Insurance other lender’s commitment if such lender fails to expectation of future payment patterns. The ultimate
cash and estimated liquidity available within one for those transactions that exceed formula amounts make a loan under the facility. This facility contains cost of losses may vary materially from recorded
quarter, under normal market conditions and at current based on statutory admitted assets and statutory an increase provision that would allow up to an amounts that are our best estimates. See Note 9 of the
market prices, was $23.44 billion. surplus. additional $500 million of borrowing, subject to the consolidated financial statements and Application of
lenders’ commitment. This facility has a financial Critical Accounting Estimates section of the MD&A for
Certain remote events and circumstances could These holding company assets and subsidiary
covenant requiring that we not exceed a 37.5% further information.
constrain our liquidity. Those events and dividends provide funds for the parent company’s fixed
debt to capitalization ratio as defined in the
circumstances include, for example, a catastrophe charges and other corporate purposes. Reserve for future policy benefits We estimate the
agreement. This ratio was 22.2% as of December
resulting in extraordinary losses, a decrease in market present value of cash payments to be made to
Intercompany dividends were paid in 2022, 2021 31, 2022. Although the right to borrow under the
liquidity, dramatic changes in security pricing, a contractholders and policyholders. We are currently
and 2020 between the following companies: AIC, facility is not subject to a minimum rating
cybersecurity breach, a downgrade in our senior long- making payments for contracts where the timing of a
Allstate Insurance Holdings, LLC (“AIH”), the requirement, the costs of maintaining the facility
term debt ratings to non-investment grade status, or a portion or all of the payments has been determined by
Corporation, ALIC, American Heritage Life Insurance and borrowing under it are based on the ratings of
downgrade in AIC’s financial strength ratings. The the contract. Contracts such as voluntary accident and
Company (“AHL”) and Allstate Financial Insurance our senior unsecured, unguaranteed long-term
rating agencies also consider the interdependence of health insurance, interest-sensitive life and traditional
Holdings Corporation (“AFIHC”). debt. There were no borrowings under the credit
our individually rated entities; therefore, a rating life insurance involve payment obligations where a
facility during 2022.
change in one entity could potentially affect the ratings Intercompany dividends portion or all of the amount and timing of future
of other related entities. • To cover short-term cash needs, the Corporation payments is uncertain. We have estimated the timing
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
has access to a commercial paper facility with a of payments related to these contracts based on
The Corporation is party to an Amended and AIC to AIH $ 4,203 $ 5,946 $ 4,435
borrowing capacity limited to any undrawn credit historical experience and our expectation of future
Restated Intercompany Liquidity Agreement (“Liquidity AIH to the Corporation 4,205 5,586 4,443
facility balance up to $750 million. payment patterns. Uncertainties relating to these
Agreement”) with certain subsidiaries, which includes, ALIC to AIC — 1,642 —
liabilities include mortality, morbidity, expenses,
but is not limited to AIC. The Liquidity Agreement AHL to AFIHC 110 90 80 • As of December 31, 2022, there were no balances customer lapse and withdrawal activity, estimated
allows for short-term advances of funds to be made outstanding for the credit facility or the
AFIHC to the Corporation 112 128 115 additional deposits for interest-sensitive life contracts,
between parties for liquidity and other general commercial paper facility and therefore the
and renewal premium for life policies, which may
corporate purposes. The Liquidity Agreement does not remaining borrowing capacity was $750 million.
There were no capital contributions paid by the significantly impact both the timing and amount of
establish a commitment to advance funds on the part
Corporation to AIC in 2022, 2021 or 2020. • The Corporation has access to a universal shelf future payments. See Note 10 of the consolidated
of any party. AIC serves as a lender and borrower,
registration statement with the Securities and financial statements for further information.
certain other subsidiaries serve only as borrowers, and Dividends may not be paid or declared on our
Exchange Commission that expires in 2024. We
the Corporation serves only as a lender. The maximum common stock and shares of common stock may not Contractual commitments represent investment
can use this shelf registration to issue an
amount of potential funding under each of these be repurchased unless the full dividends for the latest commitments such as private placements, limited
unspecified amount of debt securities, common
agreements is $1.00 billion. completed dividend period on our preferred stock have partnership interests and other loans. Limited
stock (including 637 million shares of treasury
been declared and paid or provided for. partnership interests are typically funded over the
In addition to the Liquidity Agreement, the stock as of December 31, 2022), preferred stock,
commitment period which is shorter than the
Corporation also has an intercompany loan agreement We are prohibited from declaring or paying depository shares, warrants, stock purchase
contractual expiration date of the partnership and as a
with certain of its subsidiaries, which includes, but is dividends on our Series G preferred stock if we fail to contracts, stock purchase units and securities of
result, the actual timing of the funding may vary.
not limited to, AIC. The amount of intercompany loans meet specified capital adequacy, net income or trust subsidiaries. The specific terms of any
available to the Corporation’s subsidiaries is at the shareholders’ equity levels, except out of the net securities we issue under this registration We have agreements in place for services we
discretion of the Corporation. The maximum amount of proceeds of common stock issued during the 90 days statement will be provided in the applicable conduct, generally at cost, between subsidiaries
loans the Corporation will have outstanding to all its prior to the date of declaration. As of December 31, prospectus supplements. relating to insurance, reinsurance, loans and
eligible subsidiaries at any given point in time is limited 2022, we satisfied all the requirements with no current capitalization. All material intercompany transactions
Long-term contractual obligations
to $1.00 billion. The Corporation may use commercial restrictions on the payment of preferred stock have been appropriately eliminated in consolidation.
paper borrowings, bank lines of credit and securities dividends. Defined benefit pension plans and other Intercompany transactions among insurance
lending to fund intercompany borrowings. postretirement benefit plans (“OPEB”) Pension plan subsidiaries and affiliates have been approved by the
The terms of our outstanding subordinated
obligations within the next 12 months represent our appropriate departments of insurance as required.
Parent company capital capacity At the parent debentures also prohibit us from declaring or paying
planned contributions to certain unfunded non-
holding company level, we have deployable assets any dividends or distributions on our common or For a more detailed discussion of our off-balance
qualified plans where the benefit obligation exceeds
totaling $4.02 billion as of December 31, 2022, primarily preferred stock or redeeming, purchasing, acquiring, or sheet arrangements, see Note 7 of the consolidated
the assets. Obligations beyond 12 months are
comprised of cash and investments that are generally making liquidation payments on our common stock or financial statements.
projected based on the average remaining service
saleable within one quarter. The earnings capacity of preferred stock if we have elected to defer interest
period using the current underfunded status of the
the operating subsidiaries is the primary source of payments on the subordinated debentures, subject to
plans. The OPEB plans’ obligations are estimated
capital generation for the Corporation. certain limited exceptions. In 2022, we did not defer
based on the expected benefits to be paid. See
interest payments on the subordinated debentures.
The payment of dividends by AIC to The Allstate Note 18 of the consolidated financial statements for
Corporation is limited by Illinois insurance law to Additional resources to support liquidity are as further information.
formula amounts based on statutory net income and follows:
statutory surplus, as well as the timing and amount of
• The Corporation and AIC have access to a
dividends paid in the preceding twelve months. The
$750 million unsecured revolving credit facility that
maximum amount of dividends that AIC will be able to
is available for short-term liquidity requirements. In
pay, without prior Illinois Department of Insurance
November 2022, the maturity date of this facility
approval, at a given point in time in 2023, based on 10%
was extended to November 2027 and the USD
of actual 2022 statutory surplus, is estimated at $1.22
184 2022 Annual Report
185 www.allstate.comCapital Resources and Liquidity Capital Resources and Liquidity
expect to be able to liquidate within one week. In billion, less dividends paid during the preceding twelve benchmark rate was amended from London Reserves for property and casualty insurance
addition, we regularly estimate how much of the total months measured at that point in time. For the year Interbank Offered Rate to Secured Overnight claims and claims expense represent estimated
portfolio, which includes high quality corporate fixed ended December 31, 2022, the total amount of Financing Rate. The facility is fully subscribed amounts necessary to settle all outstanding claims,
income and municipal holdings, can be reasonably dividends AIC paid remained under the maximum among 11 lenders with the largest commitment including claims that have been IBNR as of the balance
liquidated within one quarter. These estimates are amount of $5.51 billion allowed in 2022. Notification being $95 million. The commitments of the lenders sheet date. Estimated timing of payments for reserves
subject to considerable uncertainty associated with and approval of intercompany lending activities are are several and no lender is responsible for any is based on our historical experience and our
evolving market conditions. As of December 31, 2022, also required by the Illinois Department of Insurance other lender’s commitment if such lender fails to expectation of future payment patterns. The ultimate
cash and estimated liquidity available within one for those transactions that exceed formula amounts make a loan under the facility. This facility contains cost of losses may vary materially from recorded
quarter, under normal market conditions and at current based on statutory admitted assets and statutory an increase provision that would allow up to an amounts that are our best estimates. See Note 9 of the
market prices, was $23.44 billion. surplus. additional $500 million of borrowing, subject to the consolidated financial statements and Application of
lenders’ commitment. This facility has a financial Critical Accounting Estimates section of the MD&A for
Certain remote events and circumstances could These holding company assets and subsidiary
covenant requiring that we not exceed a 37.5% further information.
constrain our liquidity. Those events and dividends provide funds for the parent company’s fixed
debt to capitalization ratio as defined in the
circumstances include, for example, a catastrophe charges and other corporate purposes. Reserve for future policy benefits We estimate the
agreement. This ratio was 22.2% as of December
resulting in extraordinary losses, a decrease in market present value of cash payments to be made to
Intercompany dividends were paid in 2022, 2021 31, 2022. Although the right to borrow under the
liquidity, dramatic changes in security pricing, a contractholders and policyholders. We are currently
and 2020 between the following companies: AIC, facility is not subject to a minimum rating
cybersecurity breach, a downgrade in our senior long- making payments for contracts where the timing of a
Allstate Insurance Holdings, LLC (“AIH”), the requirement, the costs of maintaining the facility
term debt ratings to non-investment grade status, or a portion or all of the payments has been determined by
Corporation, ALIC, American Heritage Life Insurance and borrowing under it are based on the ratings of
downgrade in AIC’s financial strength ratings. The the contract. Contracts such as voluntary accident and
Company (“AHL”) and Allstate Financial Insurance our senior unsecured, unguaranteed long-term
rating agencies also consider the interdependence of health insurance, interest-sensitive life and traditional
Holdings Corporation (“AFIHC”). debt. There were no borrowings under the credit
our individually rated entities; therefore, a rating life insurance involve payment obligations where a
facility during 2022.
change in one entity could potentially affect the ratings Intercompany dividends portion or all of the amount and timing of future
of other related entities. • To cover short-term cash needs, the Corporation payments is uncertain. We have estimated the timing
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
has access to a commercial paper facility with a of payments related to these contracts based on
The Corporation is party to an Amended and AIC to AIH $ 4,203 $ 5,946 $ 4,435
borrowing capacity limited to any undrawn credit historical experience and our expectation of future
Restated Intercompany Liquidity Agreement (“Liquidity AIH to the Corporation 4,205 5,586 4,443
facility balance up to $750 million. payment patterns. Uncertainties relating to these
Agreement”) with certain subsidiaries, which includes, ALIC to AIC — 1,642 —
liabilities include mortality, morbidity, expenses,
but is not limited to AIC. The Liquidity Agreement AHL to AFIHC 110 90 80 • As of December 31, 2022, there were no balances customer lapse and withdrawal activity, estimated
allows for short-term advances of funds to be made outstanding for the credit facility or the
AFIHC to the Corporation 112 128 115 additional deposits for interest-sensitive life contracts,
between parties for liquidity and other general commercial paper facility and therefore the
and renewal premium for life policies, which may
corporate purposes. The Liquidity Agreement does not remaining borrowing capacity was $750 million.
There were no capital contributions paid by the significantly impact both the timing and amount of
establish a commitment to advance funds on the part
Corporation to AIC in 2022, 2021 or 2020. • The Corporation has access to a universal shelf future payments. See Note 10 of the consolidated
of any party. AIC serves as a lender and borrower,
registration statement with the Securities and financial statements for further information.
certain other subsidiaries serve only as borrowers, and Dividends may not be paid or declared on our
Exchange Commission that expires in 2024. We
the Corporation serves only as a lender. The maximum common stock and shares of common stock may not Contractual commitments represent investment
can use this shelf registration to issue an
amount of potential funding under each of these be repurchased unless the full dividends for the latest commitments such as private placements, limited
unspecified amount of debt securities, common
agreements is $1.00 billion. completed dividend period on our preferred stock have partnership interests and other loans. Limited
stock (including 637 million shares of treasury
been declared and paid or provided for. partnership interests are typically funded over the
In addition to the Liquidity Agreement, the stock as of December 31, 2022), preferred stock,
commitment period which is shorter than the
Corporation also has an intercompany loan agreement We are prohibited from declaring or paying depository shares, warrants, stock purchase
contractual expiration date of the partnership and as a
with certain of its subsidiaries, which includes, but is dividends on our Series G preferred stock if we fail to contracts, stock purchase units and securities of
result, the actual timing of the funding may vary.
not limited to, AIC. The amount of intercompany loans meet specified capital adequacy, net income or trust subsidiaries. The specific terms of any
available to the Corporation’s subsidiaries is at the shareholders’ equity levels, except out of the net securities we issue under this registration We have agreements in place for services we
discretion of the Corporation. The maximum amount of proceeds of common stock issued during the 90 days statement will be provided in the applicable conduct, generally at cost, between subsidiaries
loans the Corporation will have outstanding to all its prior to the date of declaration. As of December 31, prospectus supplements. relating to insurance, reinsurance, loans and
eligible subsidiaries at any given point in time is limited 2022, we satisfied all the requirements with no current capitalization. All material intercompany transactions
Long-term contractual obligations
to $1.00 billion. The Corporation may use commercial restrictions on the payment of preferred stock have been appropriately eliminated in consolidation.
paper borrowings, bank lines of credit and securities dividends. Defined benefit pension plans and other Intercompany transactions among insurance
lending to fund intercompany borrowings. postretirement benefit plans (“OPEB”) Pension plan subsidiaries and affiliates have been approved by the
The terms of our outstanding subordinated
obligations within the next 12 months represent our appropriate departments of insurance as required.
Parent company capital capacity At the parent debentures also prohibit us from declaring or paying
planned contributions to certain unfunded non-
holding company level, we have deployable assets any dividends or distributions on our common or For a more detailed discussion of our off-balance
qualified plans where the benefit obligation exceeds
totaling $4.02 billion as of December 31, 2022, primarily preferred stock or redeeming, purchasing, acquiring, or sheet arrangements, see Note 7 of the consolidated
the assets. Obligations beyond 12 months are
comprised of cash and investments that are generally making liquidation payments on our common stock or financial statements.
projected based on the average remaining service
saleable within one quarter. The earnings capacity of preferred stock if we have elected to defer interest
period using the current underfunded status of the
the operating subsidiaries is the primary source of payments on the subordinated debentures, subject to
plans. The OPEB plans’ obligations are estimated
capital generation for the Corporation. certain limited exceptions. In 2022, we did not defer
based on the expected benefits to be paid. See
interest payments on the subordinated debentures.
The payment of dividends by AIC to The Allstate Note 18 of the consolidated financial statements for
Corporation is limited by Illinois insurance law to Additional resources to support liquidity are as further information.
formula amounts based on statutory net income and follows:
statutory surplus, as well as the timing and amount of
• The Corporation and AIC have access to a
dividends paid in the preceding twelve months. The
$750 million unsecured revolving credit facility that
maximum amount of dividends that AIC will be able to
is available for short-term liquidity requirements. In
pay, without prior Illinois Department of Insurance
November 2022, the maturity date of this facility
approval, at a given point in time in 2023, based on 10%
was extended to November 2027 and the USD
of actual 2022 statutory surplus, is estimated at $1.22
184 2022 Annual Report
185 www.allstate.comEnterprise Risk and Return Management Enterprise Risk and Return Management
Enterprise Risk and Return Management Key risks are assessed and reported through targets specific to each business unit. Allstate’s risk
comprehensive ERRM reports prepared for senior management strategies adapt to changes in business
Allstate is subject to significant risks as an insurer that are performed on an integrated, enterprise-wide management and the RRC. The risk summary report and market environments.
and a provider of other products and services. These basis, following our risk and return principles. Our legal communicates the alignment of Allstate’s risk profile
risks are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors and capital structures are designed to manage capital with risk and return principles, while providing a Process Our ERRM framework establishes a basis
section of this document. and solvency on a legal entity basis. Our risk-return perspective on risk positioning. Discussion promotes for transparency and dialogue across the enterprise
principles define how we operate and guide risk and active engagement with management and the RRC. and for continuous learning by embedding our risk and
We regularly identify, measure, manage, monitor return decision making. These principles state that our Internal controls over key risks are managed and return management culture of identifying, assessing,
and report all significant risks. Major categories of priority is to maintain a strong foundation by reported to senior management and the Audit managing, monitoring and reporting risks within the
enterprise risk are strategic, insurance, investment, protecting solvency, complying with laws and acting Committee of the Company through a semi-annual risk organization. Allstate designs business and enterprise
financial, operational and culture. with integrity. We strive to build strategic value and control dashboard. Annually, we review risks related to strategies that seek to optimize risk-adjusted returns
Allstate manages these risks through an Enterprise optimize risk and return. the strategic plan, operating plan and incentive on capital. Risks are managed at both the legal entity
and enterprise level.
Risk and Return Management (“ERRM”) framework that compensation programs with the Allstate Board.
includes governance, processes, culture, and activities A summary of our process to manage each of our
Framework We apply risk and return principles
major risk categories follows:
using an integrated ERRM framework that focuses on
assessment, transparency and dialogue. Our Strategic risk and return management addresses
framework provides a comprehensive view of risks and loss associated with inadequate or flawed business
is used by senior management and business managers planning or strategy setting, including product mix,
to drive risk-return based decisions. We continually mergers or acquisitions and market positioning, and
validate and improve our ERRM practices by unexpected changes within the market or regulatory
benchmarking and obtaining external perspectives. environment in which Allstate operates. This includes
reputational risk, which is the potential for negative
Management and the ERRC rely on internal and
publicity regarding a company’s conduct or business
external perspectives to determine an appropriate
practices to adversely impact its profitability,
level of target economic capital. Internal perspectives
operations, or consumer base, or to require costly
include enterprise solvency and volatility assessments,
litigation and other defensive measures.
review of key operating and model assumptions, and
management judgment. Sensitivity testing and We manage strategic risk in part through Allstate
scenario analysis are used to gauge the robustness of Board and senior management strategy reviews that
Allstate’s risk, capital and liquidity positions. Analysis of include risk and return assessment of our strategic
extremely low frequency scenarios is used to assess plans and ongoing monitoring of strategic actions, key
the sufficiency of capital and contingency options assumptions and the external competitive
under worst-case outcomes, including unlikely but environment. Using the ERRM framework, Allstate
impactful single events, as well as sequences of designs strategies that seek to optimize risk-adjusted
multiple tail events. External considerations include returns associated with taking insurance, investment,
NAIC risk-based capital as well as S&P’s, Moody’s, and and other business risks.
A.M. Best’s capital adequacy measurement. Our
Insurance risk and return management addresses
economic capital reflects management’s view of the
fluctuations in the timing, frequency and severity of
aggregate level of capital necessary to satisfy
benefits, expenses, and premiums relative to the
stakeholder interests, manage Allstate’s risk profile
return expectations inclusive of systemic risk,
and maintain financial strength. The impact of strategic
concentration of insurance exposures, policy terms,
initiatives on enterprise risk is evaluated through the
reinsurance coverage, and claims handling practices.
economic capital framework.
Insurance risk is the potential for loss due to
The NAIC has adopted the Risk Management and
adverse changes in actual or anticipated insurance
Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Model Act (“ORSA
claims experience (including claims adjustment
Model Act”), which has been enacted by our insurance
expenses), net of reinsurance, and lost future profits.
subsidiaries’ domiciliary states. The ORSA Model Act
Governance ERRM governance includes board management’s risk control framework and Insurance risk exposures include our operating results
requires that insurers maintain a risk management
oversight, an executive management committee, and cybersecurity program. and financial condition, claims frequency and severity,
framework and conduct an internal own risk and
enterprise and market-facing business chief risk and catastrophe and severe weather.
• The ERRC directs ERRM activities by establishing solvency assessment of the insurer’s material risks in
officers.
risk and return targets, determining economic normal and stressed environments. Results of the Insurance risk exposures are measured and
• The Allstate Corporation Board of Directors capital levels and monitoring integrated strategies assessment are filed annually. monitored with different approaches including:
(“Allstate Board”) has overall responsibility for and actions from an enterprise risk and return
Allstate’s risk appetite is measured through our • Stochastic methods: measure and monitor risks
oversight of Management’s design and perspective. The ERRC consists of Allstate’s chief
economic capital framework. The enterprise risk such as natural catastrophes and severe weather.
implementation of ERRM. executive officer, chief financial officer, chief risk
appetite is cascaded into individual risk limits which We develop probabilistic estimates of risk based
officer and other senior leaders.
• The Risk and Return Committee (“RRC”) of the set boundaries on the amount of risk we are willing to on our exposures, historical observed volatility or
Allstate Board oversees effectiveness of the ERRM • Other key committees work with the ERRC to accept from one specific risk category before industry-recognized models in the case of
program, governance structure and risk-related direct ERRM activities, including the Operating escalating for further management discussion and catastrophe risk.
decision-making, while focusing on the Company’s Committee, the Operational Risk and Return action. Risk limits are established based upon • Scenario analysis: measures and monitors risks
overall risk profile. Council, the Information Security Council, the ESG expected returns, volatility, potential tail losses and and estimated losses due to extreme low
(Environmental, Social, and Governance) Steering impact on the enterprise portfolio. To effectively frequency events that include combined multiple
• The Audit Committee oversees the effectiveness Committee, liability governance committees, and operate within risk limits and for risk-return event scenarios across risk categories and time
of internal controls over financial reporting, investment committees. optimization, Allstate establishes risk limits and capital periods.
disclosure controls and procedures as well as
186 2022 Annual Report
187 www.allstate.comEnterprise Risk and Return Management Enterprise Risk and Return Management
Enterprise Risk and Return Management Key risks are assessed and reported through targets specific to each business unit. Allstate’s risk
comprehensive ERRM reports prepared for senior management strategies adapt to changes in business
Allstate is subject to significant risks as an insurer that are performed on an integrated, enterprise-wide management and the RRC. The risk summary report and market environments.
and a provider of other products and services. These basis, following our risk and return principles. Our legal communicates the alignment of Allstate’s risk profile
risks are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors and capital structures are designed to manage capital with risk and return principles, while providing a Process Our ERRM framework establishes a basis
section of this document. and solvency on a legal entity basis. Our risk-return perspective on risk positioning. Discussion promotes for transparency and dialogue across the enterprise
principles define how we operate and guide risk and active engagement with management and the RRC. and for continuous learning by embedding our risk and
We regularly identify, measure, manage, monitor return decision making. These principles state that our Internal controls over key risks are managed and return management culture of identifying, assessing,
and report all significant risks. Major categories of priority is to maintain a strong foundation by reported to senior management and the Audit managing, monitoring and reporting risks within the
enterprise risk are strategic, insurance, investment, protecting solvency, complying with laws and acting Committee of the Company through a semi-annual risk organization. Allstate designs business and enterprise
financial, operational and culture. with integrity. We strive to build strategic value and control dashboard. Annually, we review risks related to strategies that seek to optimize risk-adjusted returns
Allstate manages these risks through an Enterprise optimize risk and return. the strategic plan, operating plan and incentive on capital. Risks are managed at both the legal entity
and enterprise level.
Risk and Return Management (“ERRM”) framework that compensation programs with the Allstate Board.
includes governance, processes, culture, and activities A summary of our process to manage each of our
Framework We apply risk and return principles
major risk categories follows:
using an integrated ERRM framework that focuses on
assessment, transparency and dialogue. Our Strategic risk and return management addresses
framework provides a comprehensive view of risks and loss associated with inadequate or flawed business
is used by senior management and business managers planning or strategy setting, including product mix,
to drive risk-return based decisions. We continually mergers or acquisitions and market positioning, and
validate and improve our ERRM practices by unexpected changes within the market or regulatory
benchmarking and obtaining external perspectives. environment in which Allstate operates. This includes
reputational risk, which is the potential for negative
Management and the ERRC rely on internal and
publicity regarding a company’s conduct or business
external perspectives to determine an appropriate
practices to adversely impact its profitability,
level of target economic capital. Internal perspectives
operations, or consumer base, or to require costly
include enterprise solvency and volatility assessments,
litigation and other defensive measures.
review of key operating and model assumptions, and
management judgment. Sensitivity testing and We manage strategic risk in part through Allstate
scenario analysis are used to gauge the robustness of Board and senior management strategy reviews that
Allstate’s risk, capital and liquidity positions. Analysis of include risk and return assessment of our strategic
extremely low frequency scenarios is used to assess plans and ongoing monitoring of strategic actions, key
the sufficiency of capital and contingency options assumptions and the external competitive
under worst-case outcomes, including unlikely but environment. Using the ERRM framework, Allstate
impactful single events, as well as sequences of designs strategies that seek to optimize risk-adjusted
multiple tail events. External considerations include returns associated with taking insurance, investment,
NAIC risk-based capital as well as S&P’s, Moody’s, and and other business risks.
A.M. Best’s capital adequacy measurement. Our
Insurance risk and return management addresses
economic capital reflects management’s view of the
fluctuations in the timing, frequency and severity of
aggregate level of capital necessary to satisfy
benefits, expenses, and premiums relative to the
stakeholder interests, manage Allstate’s risk profile
return expectations inclusive of systemic risk,
and maintain financial strength. The impact of strategic
concentration of insurance exposures, policy terms,
initiatives on enterprise risk is evaluated through the
reinsurance coverage, and claims handling practices.
economic capital framework.
Insurance risk is the potential for loss due to
The NAIC has adopted the Risk Management and
adverse changes in actual or anticipated insurance
Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Model Act (“ORSA
claims experience (including claims adjustment
Model Act”), which has been enacted by our insurance
expenses), net of reinsurance, and lost future profits.
subsidiaries’ domiciliary states. The ORSA Model Act
Governance ERRM governance includes board management’s risk control framework and Insurance risk exposures include our operating results
requires that insurers maintain a risk management
oversight, an executive management committee, and cybersecurity program. and financial condition, claims frequency and severity,
framework and conduct an internal own risk and
enterprise and market-facing business chief risk and catastrophe and severe weather.
• The ERRC directs ERRM activities by establishing solvency assessment of the insurer’s material risks in
officers.
risk and return targets, determining economic normal and stressed environments. Results of the Insurance risk exposures are measured and
• The Allstate Corporation Board of Directors capital levels and monitoring integrated strategies assessment are filed annually. monitored with different approaches including:
(“Allstate Board”) has overall responsibility for and actions from an enterprise risk and return
Allstate’s risk appetite is measured through our • Stochastic methods: measure and monitor risks
oversight of Management’s design and perspective. The ERRC consists of Allstate’s chief
economic capital framework. The enterprise risk such as natural catastrophes and severe weather.
implementation of ERRM. executive officer, chief financial officer, chief risk
appetite is cascaded into individual risk limits which We develop probabilistic estimates of risk based
officer and other senior leaders.
• The Risk and Return Committee (“RRC”) of the set boundaries on the amount of risk we are willing to on our exposures, historical observed volatility or
Allstate Board oversees effectiveness of the ERRM • Other key committees work with the ERRC to accept from one specific risk category before industry-recognized models in the case of
program, governance structure and risk-related direct ERRM activities, including the Operating escalating for further management discussion and catastrophe risk.
decision-making, while focusing on the Company’s Committee, the Operational Risk and Return action. Risk limits are established based upon • Scenario analysis: measures and monitors risks
overall risk profile. Council, the Information Security Council, the ESG expected returns, volatility, potential tail losses and and estimated losses due to extreme low
(Environmental, Social, and Governance) Steering impact on the enterprise portfolio. To effectively frequency events that include combined multiple
• The Audit Committee oversees the effectiveness Committee, liability governance committees, and operate within risk limits and for risk-return event scenarios across risk categories and time
of internal controls over financial reporting, investment committees. optimization, Allstate establishes risk limits and capital periods.
disclosure controls and procedures as well as
186 2022 Annual Report
187 www.allstate.comEnterprise Risk and Return Management Application of Critical Accounting Estimates
Investment risk and return management Operational risk and return management Application of Critical Accounting Estimates
addresses financial loss due to changes in the addresses loss as a result of the failure of people,
The preparation of financial statements in of comparable securities, interest rate yield curves,
valuations of assets held in the Allstate investment processes, or systems. Operational risk exposures
conformity with GAAP requires management to adopt credit spreads, liquidity spreads, currency rates, and
portfolio. Such losses may be caused by macro include human capital, privacy, regulatory compliance,
accounting policies and make estimates and other information, as applicable. Credit and liquidity
developments, such as changes to interest rates, ethics, fraud, system availability, cybersecurity, data
assumptions that affect amounts reported in the spreads are typically implied from completed
credit spreads and equity price levels, or could be quality, disaster recovery and business continuity.
consolidated financial statements. The most critical transactions and transactions of comparable securities.
specific to individual investments in the portfolio.
Operational risk is managed at the enterprise and estimates, presented in the order they appear in the Valuation service providers also use proprietary
These losses can encompass both daily market
market-facing business levels, through an integrated Consolidated Statements of Financial Position, include discounted cash flow models that are widely accepted
volatility and permanent impairments of capital due to
Operational Risk and Return Management (“ORRM”) those used in determining: in the financial services industry and similar to those
credit defaults and equity write-downs.
framework that is anchored to the ERRM Learning used by other market participants to value the same
• Fair value of financial assets
Investment risk exposures include interest rate Loop, which depicts the five components of effective financial instruments. The valuation models take into
risk, credit spread risk, equity price risk and foreign risk management. The Learning Loop is a continual • Impairment of fixed income securities with credit account, among other things, market observable
currency exchange rate risk. process which includes risk identification, losses information as of the measurement date, as described
measurement, management, monitoring, and reporting above, as well as the specific attributes of the security
Investment risk exposures are measured, • Business combinations and purchase price
of risk. being valued including its term, interest rate, credit
monitored and limited in a number of ways including: allocations
rating, industry sector, and where applicable, collateral
From time to time, we engage independent
• Sensitivity analysis: measures the impact from a • Evaluation of goodwill quality and other issue or issuer specific information.
advisers to assess and consult on operational risks. We
unit change in a market risk input. Executing valuation models effectively requires
also perform internal risk reviews of the quality of our • Reserve for property and casualty insurance claims seasoned professional judgment and experience. For
• Stochastic and probabilistic estimation of potential operational risk program and identify opportunities to and claims expense estimation certain equity securities, valuation service providers
losses: combines portfolio risk exposures with strengthen our internal controls.
provide market quotations for completed transactions
• Pension and other postretirement plans net costs
historical or recent market volatilities and
Culture risk and return management addresses and assumptions on the measurement date. In cases where market
correlations to assess the potential range of future
the potential for loss of stakeholder value from a transactions or other market observable data is
investment results. suboptimal work environment, missed opportunities, or In making these determinations, management limited, the extent to which judgment is applied varies
• Contributions to economic capital: measure the ineffective risk management practices. Allstate defines makes subjective and complex judgments that inversely with the availability of market observable
percentage allocations of investment risk and risk organization culture as a self-sustaining system of frequently require estimates about matters that are information.
types within enterprise economic capital. shared values, principles and priorities that shape inherently uncertain. Many of these policies, estimates
For certain of our financial assets measured at fair
beliefs, drive behavior and influence decision-making and related judgments are common in the insurance
• Scenario analysis: measures material adverse within an organization. Allstate’s approach is grounded and financial services industries; others are specific to value, where our valuation service providers cannot
outcomes such as shock scenarios applied to in its Risk and Return Principles and organized by Our our businesses and operations. It is reasonably likely provide fair value determinations, we obtain a single
credit, public and private equity markets. Shared Purpose. that changes in these estimates could occur from non-binding price quote from a broker familiar with the
security who, similar to our valuation service providers,
period to period and result in a material impact on our
Some of the stress scenarios are a combination of Culture is managed using a set of cultural risk consolidated financial statements. may consider transactions or activity in similar
multiple scenarios across risk categories and over categories established as a basis for assessment and securities among other information. The brokers
multiple time periods, considering the effects of measurement, and the Learning Loop is applied to A summary of each of these critical accounting providing price quotes are generally from the
macroeconomic conditions. ensure continuous improvement. Results of culture risk estimates follows. For a more detailed discussion of brokerage divisions of financial institutions with market
Financial risk and return management addresses assessments are reported to the ERRC and RRC the effect of these estimates on our consolidated making, underwriting and distribution expertise
the risk of insufficient cash flows to meet corporate or throughout the year. To strengthen oversight, the financial statements, and the judgments and regarding the security subject to valuation.
policyholder needs, risk of inadequate aggregate Culture Risk and Return Management (“CRRM”) team assumptions related to these estimates, see the The fair value of certain financial assets, including
capital or capital within any subsidiary, inability to partners with Human Resources and the broader referenced sections of this document. For a more privately placed corporate fixed income securities and
access capital markets, credit risk that arises when an organization to enhance the sophistication of the detailed summary of our significant accounting free-standing derivatives, for which our valuation
external party fails to meet a contractual obligation CRRM framework, including the following key policies, see the notes to the consolidated financial service providers or brokers do not provide fair value
such as reinsurance for ceded claims, or risk associated components: statements. determinations, is developed using valuation methods
with a business counterparty default. • Key risk categories, defining the most important Fair value of financial assets Fair value is defined and models widely accepted in the financial services
We actively manage our capital and liquidity levels areas of culture to track and enhance. as the price that would be received to sell an asset or industry. Our internal pricing methods are primarily
paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction based on models using discounted cash flow
in light of changing market, economic and business
• Key risk indicators, reflecting the health of the between market participants at the measurement methodologies that develop a single best estimate of
conditions. Our capital position, capital generation
system, providing early warnings, and helping date. We are responsible for the determination of fair fair value. Our models generally incorporate inputs that
capacity, and targeted risk profile provide strategic
Allstate prioritize risk and return activities. value of financial assets and the supporting we believe are representative of inputs other market
and financial flexibility.
• Governance, ensuring timely discussion, assumptions and methodologies. We use independent participants would use to determine fair value of the
We generally assess solvency on a statutory escalation, and prioritization of issues, as well as third-party valuation service providers, broker quotes same instruments, including yield curves, quoted
accounting basis, but also consider holding company identification of opportunities. and internal pricing methods to determine fair values. market prices of comparable securities or instruments,
capital and liquidity needs. Current enterprise capital, We utilize only one single quote or price to value each published credit spreads, and other applicable market
which exceeds economic targeted levels, is based on a Many risk drivers impact more than one of these financial instrument in our financial statements. data as well as instrument-specific characteristics that
combination of statutory surplus and deployable key risk categories. Examples include risks related to include, but are not limited to, coupon rates, expected
Valuation service providers typically obtain data
assets at the parent holding company level. the Coronavirus, inflation, and ESG factors. Such risks cash flows, sector of the issuer, and call provisions.
about market transactions and other key valuation
are managed within processes listed above, but overall Because judgment is required in developing the fair
model inputs from multiple sources and, through the
strategy is coordinated at the enterprise level, and values of these financial assets, they may differ from
use of proprietary models, produce valuation
holistic governance is provided by cross-functional the amount actually received to sell an asset in an
information in the form of a single fair value for
committees such as the ERRC and ESG Steering orderly transaction between market participants at the
individual fixed income and other securities for which a
Committee. measurement date. Moreover, the use of different
fair value has been requested under the terms of our
valuation assumptions may have a material effect on
agreements. The inputs used by the valuation service
the financial assets’ fair values.
providers include, but are not limited to, market prices
from recently completed transactions and transactions
188 2022 Annual Report
189 www.allstate.comEnterprise Risk and Return Management Application of Critical Accounting Estimates
Investment risk and return management Operational risk and return management Application of Critical Accounting Estimates
addresses financial loss due to changes in the addresses loss as a result of the failure of people,
The preparation of financial statements in of comparable securities, interest rate yield curves,
valuations of assets held in the Allstate investment processes, or systems. Operational risk exposures
conformity with GAAP requires management to adopt credit spreads, liquidity spreads, currency rates, and
portfolio. Such losses may be caused by macro include human capital, privacy, regulatory compliance,
accounting policies and make estimates and other information, as applicable. Credit and liquidity
developments, such as changes to interest rates, ethics, fraud, system availability, cybersecurity, data
assumptions that affect amounts reported in the spreads are typically implied from completed
credit spreads and equity price levels, or could be quality, disaster recovery and business continuity.
consolidated financial statements. The most critical transactions and transactions of comparable securities.
specific to individual investments in the portfolio.
Operational risk is managed at the enterprise and estimates, presented in the order they appear in the Valuation service providers also use proprietary
These losses can encompass both daily market
market-facing business levels, through an integrated Consolidated Statements of Financial Position, include discounted cash flow models that are widely accepted
volatility and permanent impairments of capital due to
Operational Risk and Return Management (“ORRM”) those used in determining: in the financial services industry and similar to those
credit defaults and equity write-downs.
framework that is anchored to the ERRM Learning used by other market participants to value the same
• Fair value of financial assets
Investment risk exposures include interest rate Loop, which depicts the five components of effective financial instruments. The valuation models take into
risk, credit spread risk, equity price risk and foreign risk management. The Learning Loop is a continual • Impairment of fixed income securities with credit account, among other things, market observable
currency exchange rate risk. process which includes risk identification, losses information as of the measurement date, as described
measurement, management, monitoring, and reporting above, as well as the specific attributes of the security
Investment risk exposures are measured, • Business combinations and purchase price
of risk. being valued including its term, interest rate, credit
monitored and limited in a number of ways including: allocations
rating, industry sector, and where applicable, collateral
From time to time, we engage independent
• Sensitivity analysis: measures the impact from a • Evaluation of goodwill quality and other issue or issuer specific information.
advisers to assess and consult on operational risks. We
unit change in a market risk input. Executing valuation models effectively requires
also perform internal risk reviews of the quality of our • Reserve for property and casualty insurance claims seasoned professional judgment and experience. For
• Stochastic and probabilistic estimation of potential operational risk program and identify opportunities to and claims expense estimation certain equity securities, valuation service providers
losses: combines portfolio risk exposures with strengthen our internal controls.
provide market quotations for completed transactions
• Pension and other postretirement plans net costs
historical or recent market volatilities and
Culture risk and return management addresses and assumptions on the measurement date. In cases where market
correlations to assess the potential range of future
the potential for loss of stakeholder value from a transactions or other market observable data is
investment results. suboptimal work environment, missed opportunities, or In making these determinations, management limited, the extent to which judgment is applied varies
• Contributions to economic capital: measure the ineffective risk management practices. Allstate defines makes subjective and complex judgments that inversely with the availability of market observable
percentage allocations of investment risk and risk organization culture as a self-sustaining system of frequently require estimates about matters that are information.
types within enterprise economic capital. shared values, principles and priorities that shape inherently uncertain. Many of these policies, estimates
For certain of our financial assets measured at fair
beliefs, drive behavior and influence decision-making and related judgments are common in the insurance
• Scenario analysis: measures material adverse within an organization. Allstate’s approach is grounded and financial services industries; others are specific to value, where our valuation service providers cannot
outcomes such as shock scenarios applied to in its Risk and Return Principles and organized by Our our businesses and operations. It is reasonably likely provide fair value determinations, we obtain a single
credit, public and private equity markets. Shared Purpose. that changes in these estimates could occur from non-binding price quote from a broker familiar with the
security who, similar to our valuation service providers,
period to period and result in a material impact on our
Some of the stress scenarios are a combination of Culture is managed using a set of cultural risk consolidated financial statements. may consider transactions or activity in similar
multiple scenarios across risk categories and over categories established as a basis for assessment and securities among other information. The brokers
multiple time periods, considering the effects of measurement, and the Learning Loop is applied to A summary of each of these critical accounting providing price quotes are generally from the
macroeconomic conditions. ensure continuous improvement. Results of culture risk estimates follows. For a more detailed discussion of brokerage divisions of financial institutions with market
Financial risk and return management addresses assessments are reported to the ERRC and RRC the effect of these estimates on our consolidated making, underwriting and distribution expertise
the risk of insufficient cash flows to meet corporate or throughout the year. To strengthen oversight, the financial statements, and the judgments and regarding the security subject to valuation.
policyholder needs, risk of inadequate aggregate Culture Risk and Return Management (“CRRM”) team assumptions related to these estimates, see the The fair value of certain financial assets, including
capital or capital within any subsidiary, inability to partners with Human Resources and the broader referenced sections of this document. For a more privately placed corporate fixed income securities and
access capital markets, credit risk that arises when an organization to enhance the sophistication of the detailed summary of our significant accounting free-standing derivatives, for which our valuation
external party fails to meet a contractual obligation CRRM framework, including the following key policies, see the notes to the consolidated financial service providers or brokers do not provide fair value
such as reinsurance for ceded claims, or risk associated components: statements. determinations, is developed using valuation methods
with a business counterparty default. • Key risk categories, defining the most important Fair value of financial assets Fair value is defined and models widely accepted in the financial services
We actively manage our capital and liquidity levels areas of culture to track and enhance. as the price that would be received to sell an asset or industry. Our internal pricing methods are primarily
paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction based on models using discounted cash flow
in light of changing market, economic and business
• Key risk indicators, reflecting the health of the between market participants at the measurement methodologies that develop a single best estimate of
conditions. Our capital position, capital generation
system, providing early warnings, and helping date. We are responsible for the determination of fair fair value. Our models generally incorporate inputs that
capacity, and targeted risk profile provide strategic
Allstate prioritize risk and return activities. value of financial assets and the supporting we believe are representative of inputs other market
and financial flexibility.
• Governance, ensuring timely discussion, assumptions and methodologies. We use independent participants would use to determine fair value of the
We generally assess solvency on a statutory escalation, and prioritization of issues, as well as third-party valuation service providers, broker quotes same instruments, including yield curves, quoted
accounting basis, but also consider holding company identification of opportunities. and internal pricing methods to determine fair values. market prices of comparable securities or instruments,
capital and liquidity needs. Current enterprise capital, We utilize only one single quote or price to value each published credit spreads, and other applicable market
which exceeds economic targeted levels, is based on a Many risk drivers impact more than one of these financial instrument in our financial statements. data as well as instrument-specific characteristics that
combination of statutory surplus and deployable key risk categories. Examples include risks related to include, but are not limited to, coupon rates, expected
Valuation service providers typically obtain data
assets at the parent holding company level. the Coronavirus, inflation, and ESG factors. Such risks cash flows, sector of the issuer, and call provisions.
about market transactions and other key valuation
are managed within processes listed above, but overall Because judgment is required in developing the fair
model inputs from multiple sources and, through the
strategy is coordinated at the enterprise level, and values of these financial assets, they may differ from
use of proprietary models, produce valuation
holistic governance is provided by cross-functional the amount actually received to sell an asset in an
information in the form of a single fair value for
committees such as the ERRC and ESG Steering orderly transaction between market participants at the
individual fixed income and other securities for which a
Committee. measurement date. Moreover, the use of different
fair value has been requested under the terms of our
valuation assumptions may have a material effect on
agreements. The inputs used by the valuation service
the financial assets’ fair values.
providers include, but are not limited to, market prices
from recently completed transactions and transactions
188 2022 Annual Report
189 www.allstate.comApplication of Critical Accounting Estimates Application of Critical Accounting Estimates
For most of our financial assets measured at fair In addition, we may validate the reasonableness of fair supportable forecasts. The estimated future cash flows accident and health products. The estimated fair value
value, all significant inputs are based on or values by comparing information obtained from are discounted at the security’s current effective rate, of distribution and customer relationship intangible
corroborated by market observable data, and valuation service providers or brokers to other third- and are compared to the amortized cost of the assets was determined using an income approach that
significant management judgment does not affect the party valuation sources for selected securities. We security. The determination of cash flow estimates is considered cash flows and profits expected to be
periodic determination of fair value. The determination perform ongoing price validation procedures such as inherently subjective, and methodologies may vary generated by the acquired relationships, a weighted-
of fair value using discounted cash flow models back-testing of actual sales, which corroborate the depending on facts and circumstances specific to the average cost of capital discount rate reflecting the
involves management judgment when significant various inputs used in internal models to market security. All reasonably available information relevant relative risk of achieving the anticipated cash flows,
model inputs are not based on or corroborated by observable data. When fair value determinations are to the collectability of the security are considered profits, the time value of money, and other relevant
market observable data. However, where market expected to be more variable, we validate them when developing the estimate of cash flows expected inputs. Technology and trade names were valued using
observable data is available, it takes precedence, and through reviews by members of management who to be collected. That information generally includes, estimated useful lives and market licensing rates
as a result, no range of reasonably likely inputs exists have relevant expertise and who are independent of but is not limited to, as applicable, the remaining discounted at a weighted-average cost of capital.
from which the basis of a sensitivity analysis could be those charged with executing investment transactions. payment terms of the security, prepayment speeds, Licenses are primarily insurance licenses which were
constructed. the financial condition and future earnings potential of valued using the median value of market transactions
During periods of high volatility or market
the issue or issuer, expected defaults, expected executed over an extended observation period.
We gain assurance that our financial assets are disruption, we may perform an analysis to determine
recoveries, the value of underlying collateral,
appropriately valued through the execution of various whether there has been a significant decrease in the Value of business acquired (reported in DAC in the
origination vintage year, geographic concentration of
processes and controls designed to ensure the overall volume and level of activity for the asset when Consolidated Statements of Financial Position)
underlying collateral, available reserves or escrows,
reasonableness and consistent application of valuation compared to normal market activity, and if so, whether recognized in connection with the acquisition of
current subordination levels, third-party guarantees
methodologies, including inputs and assumptions, and transactions may not be orderly. Among the indicators National General represents the value of future profits
and other credit enhancements. Other information,
compliance with accounting standards. For fair values we consider in determining whether a significant expected to be earned over the lives of the contracts
such as industry analyst reports and forecasts, sector
received from third parties or internally estimated, our decrease in the volume and level of market activity for acquired determined using a weighted-average cost of
credit ratings, financial condition of the bond insurer
processes and controls are designed to ensure that the a specific asset has occurred include the level of new capital discount rate and other relevant assumptions.
for insured fixed income securities, and other market
valuation methodologies are appropriate and issuances in the primary market, trading volume in the These costs are amortized over the policy term of the
data relevant to the realizability of contractual cash
consistently applied, the inputs and assumptions are secondary market, level of credit spreads over contracts in force at the acquisition date, generally
flows, may also be considered. The estimated fair value
reasonable and consistent with the objective of historical levels, bid-ask spread, and price consensuses over six or twelve months.
of collateral will be used to estimate recovery value if
determining fair value, and the fair values are among market participants and sources. If evidence
we determine that the security is dependent on the Evaluation of goodwill Goodwill represents the
accurately recorded. For example, on a continuing indicates that prices are based on transactions that are
liquidation of collateral for ultimate settlement. excess of amounts paid for acquiring businesses over
basis, we assess the reasonableness of individual fair not orderly, we place little, if any, weight on the
the fair value of the net assets acquired, less any
values that have stale security prices or that exceed transaction price and will estimate fair value using an If we do not expect to receive cash flows sufficient
impairment of goodwill recognized. Goodwill is
certain thresholds as compared to previous fair values internal model. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, we to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the fixed
recognized when acquired and allocated to reporting
received from valuation service providers or brokers or did not adjust fair values provided by our valuation income security, a credit loss allowance is recorded in
units based on which unit is expected to benefit from
derived from internal models. We perform procedures service providers or brokers or substitute them with an earnings for the shortfall in expected cash flows;
the synergies of the business combination. Our
to understand and assess the methodologies, internal model for such securities. however, the amortized cost, net of the credit loss
goodwill reporting units are equivalent to our
processes and controls of valuation service providers. allowance, may not be lower than the fair value of the
reportable segments to which goodwill has been
security. The portion of the unrealized loss related to
Fixed income, equity securities and short-term investments by source of fair value determination assigned: Allstate Protection, Protection Services, and
factors other than credit remains classified in AOCI. If
December 31, 2022 we determine that the fixed income security does not Allstate Health and Benefits.
Percent have sufficient cash flow or other information to The goodwill balance was $3.50 billion at both
($ in millions) Fair value to total estimate a recovery value for the security, we may December 31, 2022 and 2021.
Fair value based on internal sources $ 257 0.5 % conclude that the entire decline in fair value is deemed
Fair value based on external sources (1) 50,968 99.5 to be credit related and the loss is recorded in Upon acquisition, the purchase price of the
acquired business is assumed to be its fair value.
Total $ 51,225 100.0 % earnings.
Subsequently, we estimate the fair value of our
(1) Includes $76 million that are valued using broker quotes and $278 million that are valued using quoted prices or quoted net asset When a security is sold or otherwise disposed or businesses in each goodwill reporting unit, utilizing a
values from deal sponsors. the security is deemed uncollectible and written off, we combination of widely accepted valuation techniques
remove amounts previously recognized in the credit including a stock price and market capitalization
For additional detail on fair value measurements, For each fixed income security in an unrealized loss
loss allowance. Recoveries after write-offs are analysis, discounted cash flow (“DCF”) calculations and
see Note 6 of the consolidated financial statements. position, we assess whether management with the
recognized when received. an estimate of a business’s fair value using market to
appropriate authority has made the decision to sell or
Impairment of fixed income securities with credit book multiples derived from peer company analysis.
whether it is more likely than not we will be required to For additional detail on investment impairments,
losses For fixed income securities classified as The stock price and market capitalization analysis
sell the security before recovery of the amortized cost see Note 5 of the consolidated financial statements.
available-for-sale, the difference between amortized takes into consideration the quoted market price of
basis for reasons such as liquidity, contractual or
cost, net of credit loss allowance (“amortized cost, net”) Business combinations and purchase price our outstanding common stock and includes a control
regulatory purposes. If a security meets either of these
and fair value, net of certain other items and deferred allocations We have acquired significant intangible premium, derived from relevant historical acquisition
criteria, any existing credit loss allowance would be
income taxes (as disclosed in Note 5 of the assets through acquisitions of businesses. Intangible activity, in determining the estimated fair value of the
written-off against the amortized cost basis of the
consolidated financial statements), is reported as a assets (reported in other assets in the Consolidated consolidated entity before allocating that fair value to
asset along with any remaining unrealized losses, with
component of AOCI on the Consolidated Statements of Statements of Financial Position) consist of capitalized individual reporting units. The DCF analysis utilizes
the incremental losses recorded in earnings.
Financial Position and is not reflected in the operating costs, primarily of the estimated fair value of long term assumptions for revenues, investment
results of any period until reclassified to net income If we have not made the decision to sell the fixed distribution and customer relationships, trade names, income, benefits, claims, other operating expenses and
upon the consummation of a transaction with an income security and it is not more likely than not we licenses and technology assets. The estimated useful income taxes to produce projections of both income
unrelated third party or when a credit loss allowance is will be required to sell the fixed income security before lives of these assets generally range from 3 to 10 years. and cash flows available for dividends that are present
recorded. We have a comprehensive portfolio recovery of its amortized cost basis, we evaluate valued using the weighted average cost of capital.
On January 4, 2021, the Company completed the
monitoring process to identify and evaluate each fixed whether we expect to receive cash flows sufficient to Market to book multiples represent the mean market
acquisition of National General Holdings Corp.
income security that may require a credit loss recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. to book multiple for selected peer companies with
(“National General”), an insurance holding company
allowance. We calculate the estimated recovery value based on operations similar to each goodwill reporting unit to
serving customers predominantly through
the best estimate of future cash flows considering past which the multiple is applied. The outputs from these
independent agents for property and casualty and
events, current conditions and reasonable and methods are weighted based on the nature of the
190 2022 Annual Report
191 www.allstate.comApplication of Critical Accounting Estimates Application of Critical Accounting Estimates
For most of our financial assets measured at fair In addition, we may validate the reasonableness of fair supportable forecasts. The estimated future cash flows accident and health products. The estimated fair value
value, all significant inputs are based on or values by comparing information obtained from are discounted at the security’s current effective rate, of distribution and customer relationship intangible
corroborated by market observable data, and valuation service providers or brokers to other third- and are compared to the amortized cost of the assets was determined using an income approach that
significant management judgment does not affect the party valuation sources for selected securities. We security. The determination of cash flow estimates is considered cash flows and profits expected to be
periodic determination of fair value. The determination perform ongoing price validation procedures such as inherently subjective, and methodologies may vary generated by the acquired relationships, a weighted-
of fair value using discounted cash flow models back-testing of actual sales, which corroborate the depending on facts and circumstances specific to the average cost of capital discount rate reflecting the
involves management judgment when significant various inputs used in internal models to market security. All reasonably available information relevant relative risk of achieving the anticipated cash flows,
model inputs are not based on or corroborated by observable data. When fair value determinations are to the collectability of the security are considered profits, the time value of money, and other relevant
market observable data. However, where market expected to be more variable, we validate them when developing the estimate of cash flows expected inputs. Technology and trade names were valued using
observable data is available, it takes precedence, and through reviews by members of management who to be collected. That information generally includes, estimated useful lives and market licensing rates
as a result, no range of reasonably likely inputs exists have relevant expertise and who are independent of but is not limited to, as applicable, the remaining discounted at a weighted-average cost of capital.
from which the basis of a sensitivity analysis could be those charged with executing investment transactions. payment terms of the security, prepayment speeds, Licenses are primarily insurance licenses which were
constructed. the financial condition and future earnings potential of valued using the median value of market transactions
During periods of high volatility or market
the issue or issuer, expected defaults, expected executed over an extended observation period.
We gain assurance that our financial assets are disruption, we may perform an analysis to determine
recoveries, the value of underlying collateral,
appropriately valued through the execution of various whether there has been a significant decrease in the Value of business acquired (reported in DAC in the
origination vintage year, geographic concentration of
processes and controls designed to ensure the overall volume and level of activity for the asset when Consolidated Statements of Financial Position)
underlying collateral, available reserves or escrows,
reasonableness and consistent application of valuation compared to normal market activity, and if so, whether recognized in connection with the acquisition of
current subordination levels, third-party guarantees
methodologies, including inputs and assumptions, and transactions may not be orderly. Among the indicators National General represents the value of future profits
and other credit enhancements. Other information,
compliance with accounting standards. For fair values we consider in determining whether a significant expected to be earned over the lives of the contracts
such as industry analyst reports and forecasts, sector
received from third parties or internally estimated, our decrease in the volume and level of market activity for acquired determined using a weighted-average cost of
credit ratings, financial condition of the bond insurer
processes and controls are designed to ensure that the a specific asset has occurred include the level of new capital discount rate and other relevant assumptions.
for insured fixed income securities, and other market
valuation methodologies are appropriate and issuances in the primary market, trading volume in the These costs are amortized over the policy term of the
data relevant to the realizability of contractual cash
consistently applied, the inputs and assumptions are secondary market, level of credit spreads over contracts in force at the acquisition date, generally
flows, may also be considered. The estimated fair value
reasonable and consistent with the objective of historical levels, bid-ask spread, and price consensuses over six or twelve months.
of collateral will be used to estimate recovery value if
determining fair value, and the fair values are among market participants and sources. If evidence
we determine that the security is dependent on the Evaluation of goodwill Goodwill represents the
accurately recorded. For example, on a continuing indicates that prices are based on transactions that are
liquidation of collateral for ultimate settlement. excess of amounts paid for acquiring businesses over
basis, we assess the reasonableness of individual fair not orderly, we place little, if any, weight on the
the fair value of the net assets acquired, less any
values that have stale security prices or that exceed transaction price and will estimate fair value using an If we do not expect to receive cash flows sufficient
impairment of goodwill recognized. Goodwill is
certain thresholds as compared to previous fair values internal model. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, we to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the fixed
recognized when acquired and allocated to reporting
received from valuation service providers or brokers or did not adjust fair values provided by our valuation income security, a credit loss allowance is recorded in
units based on which unit is expected to benefit from
derived from internal models. We perform procedures service providers or brokers or substitute them with an earnings for the shortfall in expected cash flows;
the synergies of the business combination. Our
to understand and assess the methodologies, internal model for such securities. however, the amortized cost, net of the credit loss
goodwill reporting units are equivalent to our
processes and controls of valuation service providers. allowance, may not be lower than the fair value of the
reportable segments to which goodwill has been
security. The portion of the unrealized loss related to
Fixed income, equity securities and short-term investments by source of fair value determination assigned: Allstate Protection, Protection Services, and
factors other than credit remains classified in AOCI. If
December 31, 2022 we determine that the fixed income security does not Allstate Health and Benefits.
Percent have sufficient cash flow or other information to The goodwill balance was $3.50 billion at both
($ in millions) Fair value to total estimate a recovery value for the security, we may December 31, 2022 and 2021.
Fair value based on internal sources $ 257 0.5 % conclude that the entire decline in fair value is deemed
Fair value based on external sources (1) 50,968 99.5 to be credit related and the loss is recorded in Upon acquisition, the purchase price of the
acquired business is assumed to be its fair value.
Total $ 51,225 100.0 % earnings.
Subsequently, we estimate the fair value of our
(1) Includes $76 million that are valued using broker quotes and $278 million that are valued using quoted prices or quoted net asset When a security is sold or otherwise disposed or businesses in each goodwill reporting unit, utilizing a
values from deal sponsors. the security is deemed uncollectible and written off, we combination of widely accepted valuation techniques
remove amounts previously recognized in the credit including a stock price and market capitalization
For additional detail on fair value measurements, For each fixed income security in an unrealized loss
loss allowance. Recoveries after write-offs are analysis, discounted cash flow (“DCF”) calculations and
see Note 6 of the consolidated financial statements. position, we assess whether management with the
recognized when received. an estimate of a business’s fair value using market to
appropriate authority has made the decision to sell or
Impairment of fixed income securities with credit book multiples derived from peer company analysis.
whether it is more likely than not we will be required to For additional detail on investment impairments,
losses For fixed income securities classified as The stock price and market capitalization analysis
sell the security before recovery of the amortized cost see Note 5 of the consolidated financial statements.
available-for-sale, the difference between amortized takes into consideration the quoted market price of
basis for reasons such as liquidity, contractual or
cost, net of credit loss allowance (“amortized cost, net”) Business combinations and purchase price our outstanding common stock and includes a control
regulatory purposes. If a security meets either of these
and fair value, net of certain other items and deferred allocations We have acquired significant intangible premium, derived from relevant historical acquisition
criteria, any existing credit loss allowance would be
income taxes (as disclosed in Note 5 of the assets through acquisitions of businesses. Intangible activity, in determining the estimated fair value of the
written-off against the amortized cost basis of the
consolidated financial statements), is reported as a assets (reported in other assets in the Consolidated consolidated entity before allocating that fair value to
asset along with any remaining unrealized losses, with
component of AOCI on the Consolidated Statements of Statements of Financial Position) consist of capitalized individual reporting units. The DCF analysis utilizes
the incremental losses recorded in earnings.
Financial Position and is not reflected in the operating costs, primarily of the estimated fair value of long term assumptions for revenues, investment
results of any period until reclassified to net income If we have not made the decision to sell the fixed distribution and customer relationships, trade names, income, benefits, claims, other operating expenses and
upon the consummation of a transaction with an income security and it is not more likely than not we licenses and technology assets. The estimated useful income taxes to produce projections of both income
unrelated third party or when a credit loss allowance is will be required to sell the fixed income security before lives of these assets generally range from 3 to 10 years. and cash flows available for dividends that are present
recorded. We have a comprehensive portfolio recovery of its amortized cost basis, we evaluate valued using the weighted average cost of capital.
On January 4, 2021, the Company completed the
monitoring process to identify and evaluate each fixed whether we expect to receive cash flows sufficient to Market to book multiples represent the mean market
acquisition of National General Holdings Corp.
income security that may require a credit loss recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. to book multiple for selected peer companies with
(“National General”), an insurance holding company
allowance. We calculate the estimated recovery value based on operations similar to each goodwill reporting unit to
serving customers predominantly through
the best estimate of future cash flows considering past which the multiple is applied. The outputs from these
independent agents for property and casualty and
events, current conditions and reasonable and methods are weighted based on the nature of the
190 2022 Annual Report
191 www.allstate.comApplication of Critical Accounting Estimates Application of Critical Accounting Estimates
business and the relative amount of market observable generally have an average settlement time of less than to develop a best estimate of gross ultimate losses. the previous development factor calculations. When
assumptions supporting the estimates. The computed one year. Liability losses, especially those involving These developments are discussed further in the loss actual development of these data elements is different
values are then weighted to reflect the fair value litigation, can take several years to resolve. Run-off ratio disclosures within the Allstate Protection than the historical development pattern used in a prior
estimate based on the specific attributes of each Property-Liability involves long-tail losses, such as Segment and the Claims and Claims Expense Reserves period reserve estimate, a new reserve is determined.
goodwill reporting unit. those related to asbestos and environmental claims, sections of the MD&A. The difference between indicated reserves based on
which often involve substantial reporting lags and new reserve estimates and recorded reserves (the
Estimating the fair value of reporting units is a See Run-off Property-Liability reserve estimates
extended times to settle. previous estimate) is the amount of reserve reestimate.
subjective process that involves the use of significant section for specific disclosures of industry and actuarial
This amount, which could be material and vary
estimates by management. Changes in market inputs Reserves are the difference between the best practices for this segment.
significantly from period to period is recognized as an
or other events impacting the fair value of these estimated ultimate cost of losses incurred and the
How reserve estimates are established and increase or decrease in claims and claims expense in
businesses, including discount rates, operating results, amount of paid losses as of the reporting date.
updated Reserve estimates are developed at a very the Consolidated Statements of Operations. A more
investment returns, strategies and growth rate Reserves are estimated for both reported and
detailed level, and the results are aggregated to form a detailed discussion of reserve reestimates is presented
assumptions, among other factors, could result unreported claims, and include estimates of all
consolidated reserve estimate. The detailed estimates in the Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section of
in goodwill impairments, resulting in a charge to expenses associated with processing and settling all
include each line of insurance, major components of the MD&A.
income. Certain of our goodwill reporting units are incurred claims. We update most of our reserve
losses (such as coverages and perils), major states or
comprised of a combination of legacy and acquired estimates quarterly and as new data and information
groups of states and for reported losses and IBNR. Favorable (unfavorable) impact of reserve
businesses and as a result have substantial internally become available or as events emerge that may affect
Development factors are calculated for data elements reestimates on net income applicable to common
generated and unrecognized intangibles and fair the resolution of unsettled claims. Changes in prior
such as claim counts reported and settled, paid losses, shareholders
values that significantly exceed their carrying values. reserve estimates (reserve reestimates), which may be
and paid losses combined with case reserves. The 2022 2021 2020
material, are determined by comparing updated
The most significant assumptions utilized in the historical development patterns for these data Net reserve reestimates,
estimates of ultimate losses to prior estimates, with
determination of the estimated fair value of the elements are used to calculate reserve estimates. after-tax (97.1) % (6.5) % 6.3 %
the differences recorded as property and casualty
Protection Services reporting unit are the earnings Based on this review our best estimate of required
insurance claims and claims expense in the
growth rate and discount rate. The growth rate utilized Consolidated Statements of Operations in the period reserves is recorded. 3-year average of net reserve reestimates as a
in our fair value estimates is consistent with our plans such changes are determined. Estimating the ultimate Reserves are reestimated quarterly and percentage of total reserves for each segment (1) (2)
to grow these businesses more rapidly over the near-
cost of claims and claims expenses is an inherently periodically throughout the year, by combining 2022
term with more moderated growth rates in later years.
uncertain and complex process involving a high degree historical results with current actual results to calculate Allstate Protection 1.5 %
The discount rate, which is consistent with the of judgment and is subject to the evaluation of new development factors. This process continuously Run-off Property-Liability 8.9 %
weighted average cost of capital expected by a market numerous variables. incorporates the historic and latest actual trends, and Protection Services (5.7) %
participant, is based upon industry specific required other underlying changes in the data elements used to
rates of return, including consideration of both debt The actuarial methods used to develop reserve calculate reserve estimates. New development factors (1) Favorable reserve reestimates are shown in parentheses.
estimates Reserve estimates are derived by using
and equity components of the capital structure. Our are likely to differ from previous development factors (2)Each of these results is consistent within a reasonable
several different actuarial estimation methods that are
discount rate may be impacted by changes in the risk- used in prior reserve estimates because actual results actuarial tolerance for the respective businesses.
variations on one primary actuarial technique. The
free rate, cost of debt, equity risk premium and entity occur differently than the assumptions contained in
actuarial technique is known as a “chain ladder”
specific risks.
estimation process in which historical loss patterns are Net claims and claims expense reserves by segment and line of business
Changes in our growth assumptions, including the applied to actual paid losses and reported losses (paid As of December 31,
risk of loss of key customers, or adverse changes in the losses plus individual case reserves established by
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
discount rates could result in a decline in fair value and claim adjusters) for an accident year or a report year to
Allstate Protection
result in a goodwill impairment charge. create an estimate of how losses are likely to develop
Auto (1) $ 19,365 $ 16,078 $ 14,164
over time. An accident year refers to classifying claims
Reserve for property and casualty insurance based on the year in which the claims occurred. A Homeowners (1) 3,595 2,797 2,315
claims and claims expense estimation Reserves are report year refers to classifying claims based on the Other lines (2) 3,916 3,249 2,657
established to provide for the estimated costs of
year in which the claims are reported. Both Total Allstate Protection 26,876 22,124 19,136
paying claims and claims expenses under insurance
classifications are used to prepare estimates of Run-off Property-Liability
policies we have issued. Underwriting results are
required reserves for payments to be made in the Asbestos 811 828 827
significantly influenced by estimates of property and
future. The key assumptions affecting our reserve
Environmental 267 226 206
casualty insurance claims and claims expense reserves.
estimates comprise data elements including claim
These reserves are an estimate of amounts necessary Other run-off lines 373 367 375
counts, paid losses, case reserves, and development
to settle all outstanding claims, including IBNR, as of Total Run-off Property-Liability 1,451 1,421 1,408
factors calculated with this data.
the financial statement date. Total Protection Services 38 36 33
In the chain ladder estimation technique, a ratio Total net claims and claims expense reserves $ 28,365 $ 23,581 $ 20,577
Characteristics of reserves Reserves are
(development factor) is calculated which compares
established independently of business segment current period results to results in the prior period for (1) 2021 includes a $944 million reclassification of reserves from homeowners to auto.
management for each business segment and line of
each accident year. The effects of inflation are (2)2022 and 2021 include the unamortized fair value adjustment related to the acquisition of National General.
business based on estimates of the ultimate cost to
implicitly considered in the reserving process, as a
settle claims, less losses that have been paid. The
development factor. Historic data incorporates inflation
significant lines of business are auto, homeowners, and
from recent prior periods in estimating future loss
other personal lines for Allstate Protection, and
costs. The development factor estimation
asbestos, environmental, and other run-off lines for
methodology may require modification when data
Run-off Property-Liability. Allstate Protection’s claims
changes due to changing claim reporting practices,
are typically reported promptly with relatively little
changing claim settlement patterns, external
reporting lag between the date of occurrence and the
regulatory or financial influences, or contractual
date the loss is reported. Auto and homeowners
coverage changes. Changes in such items and inflation
liability losses generally take an average of about two
can result in increased variability in loss costs and
years to settle, while auto physical damage,
reserve estimates. Actuarial judgment is then applied
homeowners property and other personal lines
192 2022 Annual Report
193 www.allstate.comApplication of Critical Accounting Estimates Application of Critical Accounting Estimates
business and the relative amount of market observable generally have an average settlement time of less than to develop a best estimate of gross ultimate losses. the previous development factor calculations. When
assumptions supporting the estimates. The computed one year. Liability losses, especially those involving These developments are discussed further in the loss actual development of these data elements is different
values are then weighted to reflect the fair value litigation, can take several years to resolve. Run-off ratio disclosures within the Allstate Protection than the historical development pattern used in a prior
estimate based on the specific attributes of each Property-Liability involves long-tail losses, such as Segment and the Claims and Claims Expense Reserves period reserve estimate, a new reserve is determined.
goodwill reporting unit. those related to asbestos and environmental claims, sections of the MD&A. The difference between indicated reserves based on
which often involve substantial reporting lags and new reserve estimates and recorded reserves (the
Estimating the fair value of reporting units is a See Run-off Property-Liability reserve estimates
extended times to settle. previous estimate) is the amount of reserve reestimate.
subjective process that involves the use of significant section for specific disclosures of industry and actuarial
This amount, which could be material and vary
estimates by management. Changes in market inputs Reserves are the difference between the best practices for this segment.
significantly from period to period is recognized as an
or other events impacting the fair value of these estimated ultimate cost of losses incurred and the
How reserve estimates are established and increase or decrease in claims and claims expense in
businesses, including discount rates, operating results, amount of paid losses as of the reporting date.
updated Reserve estimates are developed at a very the Consolidated Statements of Operations. A more
investment returns, strategies and growth rate Reserves are estimated for both reported and
detailed level, and the results are aggregated to form a detailed discussion of reserve reestimates is presented
assumptions, among other factors, could result unreported claims, and include estimates of all
consolidated reserve estimate. The detailed estimates in the Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section of
in goodwill impairments, resulting in a charge to expenses associated with processing and settling all
include each line of insurance, major components of the MD&A.
income. Certain of our goodwill reporting units are incurred claims. We update most of our reserve
losses (such as coverages and perils), major states or
comprised of a combination of legacy and acquired estimates quarterly and as new data and information
groups of states and for reported losses and IBNR. Favorable (unfavorable) impact of reserve
businesses and as a result have substantial internally become available or as events emerge that may affect
Development factors are calculated for data elements reestimates on net income applicable to common
generated and unrecognized intangibles and fair the resolution of unsettled claims. Changes in prior
such as claim counts reported and settled, paid losses, shareholders
values that significantly exceed their carrying values. reserve estimates (reserve reestimates), which may be
and paid losses combined with case reserves. The 2022 2021 2020
material, are determined by comparing updated
The most significant assumptions utilized in the historical development patterns for these data Net reserve reestimates,
estimates of ultimate losses to prior estimates, with
determination of the estimated fair value of the elements are used to calculate reserve estimates. after-tax (97.1) % (6.5) % 6.3 %
the differences recorded as property and casualty
Protection Services reporting unit are the earnings Based on this review our best estimate of required
insurance claims and claims expense in the
growth rate and discount rate. The growth rate utilized Consolidated Statements of Operations in the period reserves is recorded. 3-year average of net reserve reestimates as a
in our fair value estimates is consistent with our plans such changes are determined. Estimating the ultimate Reserves are reestimated quarterly and percentage of total reserves for each segment (1) (2)
to grow these businesses more rapidly over the near-
cost of claims and claims expenses is an inherently periodically throughout the year, by combining 2022
term with more moderated growth rates in later years.
uncertain and complex process involving a high degree historical results with current actual results to calculate Allstate Protection 1.5 %
The discount rate, which is consistent with the of judgment and is subject to the evaluation of new development factors. This process continuously Run-off Property-Liability 8.9 %
weighted average cost of capital expected by a market numerous variables. incorporates the historic and latest actual trends, and Protection Services (5.7) %
participant, is based upon industry specific required other underlying changes in the data elements used to
rates of return, including consideration of both debt The actuarial methods used to develop reserve calculate reserve estimates. New development factors (1) Favorable reserve reestimates are shown in parentheses.
estimates Reserve estimates are derived by using
and equity components of the capital structure. Our are likely to differ from previous development factors (2)Each of these results is consistent within a reasonable
several different actuarial estimation methods that are
discount rate may be impacted by changes in the risk- used in prior reserve estimates because actual results actuarial tolerance for the respective businesses.
variations on one primary actuarial technique. The
free rate, cost of debt, equity risk premium and entity occur differently than the assumptions contained in
actuarial technique is known as a “chain ladder”
specific risks.
estimation process in which historical loss patterns are Net claims and claims expense reserves by segment and line of business
Changes in our growth assumptions, including the applied to actual paid losses and reported losses (paid As of December 31,
risk of loss of key customers, or adverse changes in the losses plus individual case reserves established by
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
discount rates could result in a decline in fair value and claim adjusters) for an accident year or a report year to
Allstate Protection
result in a goodwill impairment charge. create an estimate of how losses are likely to develop
Auto (1) $ 19,365 $ 16,078 $ 14,164
over time. An accident year refers to classifying claims
Reserve for property and casualty insurance based on the year in which the claims occurred. A Homeowners (1) 3,595 2,797 2,315
claims and claims expense estimation Reserves are report year refers to classifying claims based on the Other lines (2) 3,916 3,249 2,657
established to provide for the estimated costs of
year in which the claims are reported. Both Total Allstate Protection 26,876 22,124 19,136
paying claims and claims expenses under insurance
classifications are used to prepare estimates of Run-off Property-Liability
policies we have issued. Underwriting results are
required reserves for payments to be made in the Asbestos 811 828 827
significantly influenced by estimates of property and
future. The key assumptions affecting our reserve
Environmental 267 226 206
casualty insurance claims and claims expense reserves.
estimates comprise data elements including claim
These reserves are an estimate of amounts necessary Other run-off lines 373 367 375
counts, paid losses, case reserves, and development
to settle all outstanding claims, including IBNR, as of Total Run-off Property-Liability 1,451 1,421 1,408
factors calculated with this data.
the financial statement date. Total Protection Services 38 36 33
In the chain ladder estimation technique, a ratio Total net claims and claims expense reserves $ 28,365 $ 23,581 $ 20,577
Characteristics of reserves Reserves are
(development factor) is calculated which compares
established independently of business segment current period results to results in the prior period for (1) 2021 includes a $944 million reclassification of reserves from homeowners to auto.
management for each business segment and line of
each accident year. The effects of inflation are (2)2022 and 2021 include the unamortized fair value adjustment related to the acquisition of National General.
business based on estimates of the ultimate cost to
implicitly considered in the reserving process, as a
settle claims, less losses that have been paid. The
development factor. Historic data incorporates inflation
significant lines of business are auto, homeowners, and
from recent prior periods in estimating future loss
other personal lines for Allstate Protection, and
costs. The development factor estimation
asbestos, environmental, and other run-off lines for
methodology may require modification when data
Run-off Property-Liability. Allstate Protection’s claims
changes due to changing claim reporting practices,
are typically reported promptly with relatively little
changing claim settlement patterns, external
reporting lag between the date of occurrence and the
regulatory or financial influences, or contractual
date the loss is reported. Auto and homeowners
coverage changes. Changes in such items and inflation
liability losses generally take an average of about two
can result in increased variability in loss costs and
years to settle, while auto physical damage,
reserve estimates. Actuarial judgment is then applied
homeowners property and other personal lines
192 2022 Annual Report
193 www.allstate.comApplication of Critical Accounting Estimates Application of Critical Accounting Estimates
Allstate Protection reserve estimate furnishings and other contents, the types of claims that within a certain amount of time following the event.
qualify for coverage, deductibles, other economic and Catastrophes are caused by various natural events
Factors affecting reserve estimates Reserve • In the normal course of business, we may also
environmental factors and the effectiveness of our including high winds, winter storms and freezes,
estimates are developed based on the processes and supplement our claims processes by utilizing third-
claim practices. tornadoes, hailstorms, wildfires, tropical storms,
historical development trends described above. These party adjusters, appraisers, engineers, inspectors,
tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes and volcanoes. We
estimates are considered in conjunction with known and other professionals and information sources to As loss experience for the current year develops
are also exposed to man-made catastrophic events,
facts and interpretations of circumstances and factors assess and settle catastrophe and non-catastrophe for each type of loss, it is monitored relative to initial
such as certain types of terrorism, civil unrest, wildfires
including our experience with similar cases, actual related claims. assumptions until it is judged to have sufficient
or industrial accidents. The nature and level of
claims paid, historical trends involving claim payment statistical credibility. From that point in time forward,
• Historically, the case reserves set by the field catastrophes in any period cannot be reliably
patterns and pending levels of unpaid claims, loss reserves are reestimated using statistical actuarial
adjusting staff have not proven to be an entirely predicted.
management programs, product mix and contractual processes to reflect the impact actual loss trends have
accurate estimate of the ultimate cost of claims. To
terms, changes in law and regulation, judicial decisions, on development factors incorporated into the actuarial The estimation of claims and claims expense
provide for this, a development reserve is estimated
and economic conditions. When we experience estimation processes. reserves for catastrophe losses also comprises
using the processes described above and allocated
changes of the type previously mentioned, we apply estimates of losses from reported claims and IBNR,
to pending claims as a supplement to case Causes of reserve estimate uncertainty Since
actuarial judgment in the determination and selection primarily for damage to property. In general, our
reserves. reserves are estimates of unpaid portions of claims and
of development factors considered more reflective of estimates for catastrophe reserves are based on claim
claims expenses for claims that have occurred,
the new trends, such as combining shorter or longer Incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) adjuster inspections and the application of historical
including IBNR losses, the establishment of
periods of historical results with current actual results loss development factors as described above.
• Comprises about 10% of total reserves. appropriate reserves, including reserves for
to produce development factors based on two-year, However, depending on the nature of the catastrophe,
catastrophe losses, requires regular reevaluation and
three-year, or longer development periods to • IBNR can be a small percentage of reserves for the estimation process can be further complicated. For
refinement of estimates to determine our ultimate loss
reestimate our reserves. For example: relatively short-term claims, such as auto physical example, for hurricanes, complications could include
estimate.
damage claims, or a large percentage of reserves the inability of insureds to promptly report losses,
• The Coronavirus has had a significant impact on
for claims that have uncertain payout requirements At each reporting date, the highest degree of limitations placed on claims adjusting staff affecting
driving patterns and auto frequency and severity,
over a long period of time, such as auto injury and uncertainty in estimates for most of our losses from their ability to inspect losses, determining whether
including supply chain disruptions and labor
MCCA claims. ongoing businesses arise from claims remaining to be losses are covered by our homeowners policy
shortages, higher used car prices, labor and part
settled for the current accident year and the most (generally for damage caused by wind or wind driven
cost increases, unemployment levels, changes in All major components of reserves are affected by recent preceding accident year. The greatest degree of rain) or specifically excluded coverage caused by flood,
commuting activity and driving behavior that may changes in claim frequency as well as claim severity. uncertainty exists in the current accident year because exposure to mold damage, and the effects of
lead to historical development trends being less
predictive of future loss development, potentially Generally, the initial reserves for a new accident the current accident year contains the greatest numerous other considerations, including the timing of
creating additional reserve variability. year are established based on actual claim frequency proportion of losses that have not been reported or a catastrophe in relation to other events, such as at or
and severity assumptions for different business settled as well as heightened uncertainty for claims near the end of a financial reporting period, which can
• If a legal change is expected to have a significant segments, lines and coverages based on historical that involve litigation or take longer to settle during affect the availability of information needed to
impact on the development of claim severity for a relationships to relevant inflation indicators. Reserves periods of rapidly increasing loss costs, but must be estimate reserves for that reporting period. In these
coverage which is part of a particular line of for prior accident years are statistically determined estimated as of the current reporting date. Most of situations, we may need to adapt our practices to
insurance in a specific state, judgment is applied using processes described above. Changes in auto these losses relate to damaged property such as accommodate these circumstances in order to
to determine appropriate development factors claim frequency may result from changes in mix of automobiles and homes, and medical care for injuries determine a best estimate of our losses from a
that will most accurately reflect the expected business, driving behaviors, miles driven or other from accidents. During the first year after the end of an catastrophe. For example, to complete estimates for
impact on that specific estimate. macroeconomic factors. Changes in auto current year accident year, a large portion of the total losses for certain areas affected by catastrophes not yet
claim severity are generally influenced by inflation in that accident year are settled. When accident year inspected by our claims adjusting staff, or where we
• A change in economic conditions is expected to
the medical and auto repair sectors of the economy, losses paid through the end of the first year following believed our historical loss development factors were
affect the cost of repairs to damaged autos or
the effectiveness and efficiency of our claim practices the initial accident year are incorporated into updated not predictive, we rely on analysis of actual claim
property for a particular line, coverage, or state,
and changes in mix of claim type. Injury claims are actuarial estimates, the trends inherent in the notices received compared to total PIF, as well as
actuarial judgment is applied to determine
affected largely by medical inflation, treatment trends, settlement of claims emerge more clearly. After the visual, governmental and third-party information,
appropriate development factors to use in the
attorney representation and litigation costs while second year, the losses that we pay for an accident including aerial photos, using satellites, aircrafts and
reserve estimate that will most accurately reflect
physical damage claims are affected largely by auto year typically relate to claims that are more difficult to drones, area observations, and data on wind speed and
the expected impacts on severity development.
repair cost inflation, used car prices, length of claim settle, such as those involving serious injuries or flood depth to the extent available.
Case and supplemental reserves resolution and the timing of receipt of third-party litigation. Private passenger auto insurance provides a Potential reserve estimate variability The
• Typically, the case, including statistical case, and carrier claims. good illustration of the uncertainty of future loss aggregation of numerous components for each
estimates: our typical annual percentage payout of
supplemental development reserves comprise We mitigate these effects through various loss reserves remaining at December 31 for an accident business segment, line of insurance, major types of
about 90% of total reserves. management programs. For auto physical damage year is approximately 50% in the first year after the end losses (such as coverages and perils), and major states
or groups of states for reported losses and IBNR forms
• As claims are reported, for certain liability claims coverages, we monitor our rate of increase in average of the accident year, 20% in the second year, 10% in the the reserve liability recorded in the Consolidated
of sufficient size and complexity, the field cost per claim against the auto maintenance, repair, third year, 10% in the fourth year, and the remaining Statements of Financial Position. Because of this
adjusting staff establishes case reserve parts and equipment price indices. We believe our 10% thereafter. detailed approach to developing our reserve estimates,
claim settlement initiatives, such as improvements to
estimates of ultimate cost, based on their the claim review and settlement process, the use of Reserves for catastrophe losses Catastrophe there is not a single set of assumptions that
assessment of facts and circumstances related special investigative units to detect fraud and handle losses are an inherent risk of the property and casualty determines our reserve estimates at the consolidated
to each individual claim. suspect claims, litigation management and defense insurance industry that have contributed, and will level. Given the numerous estimates for reported
• For other claims which occur in large volumes strategies, as well as various other loss management continue to contribute, to potentially material year-to- losses and IBNR, management does not believe the
and settle in a relatively short time frame, it is initiatives underway, contribute to the mitigation of year fluctuations in our results of operations and processes that we follow will produce a statistically
not practical or efficient to set case reserves for injury and physical damage severity trends. financial position. We define a “catastrophe” as an credible or reliable actuarial reserve range that would
each claim, and a statistical case reserve is set event that produces pre-tax losses before reinsurance be meaningful. Reserve estimates, by their very nature,
for these claims based on estimation techniques Changes in homeowners current year claim in excess of $1 million and involves multiple first party are very complex to determine and subject to
described above. severity are generally influenced by inflation in the cost policyholders, or a winter weather event that produces significant judgment, and do not represent an exact
of building materials, the cost of construction and a number of claims in excess of a preset, per-event determination for each outstanding claim. Accordingly,
property repair services, the cost of replacing home threshold of average claims in a specific area, occurring as actual claims, paid losses, and case reserve results
194 2022 Annual Report
195 www.allstate.comApplication of Critical Accounting Estimates Application of Critical Accounting Estimates
Allstate Protection reserve estimate furnishings and other contents, the types of claims that within a certain amount of time following the event.
qualify for coverage, deductibles, other economic and Catastrophes are caused by various natural events
Factors affecting reserve estimates Reserve • In the normal course of business, we may also
environmental factors and the effectiveness of our including high winds, winter storms and freezes,
estimates are developed based on the processes and supplement our claims processes by utilizing third-
claim practices. tornadoes, hailstorms, wildfires, tropical storms,
historical development trends described above. These party adjusters, appraisers, engineers, inspectors,
tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes and volcanoes. We
estimates are considered in conjunction with known and other professionals and information sources to As loss experience for the current year develops
are also exposed to man-made catastrophic events,
facts and interpretations of circumstances and factors assess and settle catastrophe and non-catastrophe for each type of loss, it is monitored relative to initial
such as certain types of terrorism, civil unrest, wildfires
including our experience with similar cases, actual related claims. assumptions until it is judged to have sufficient
or industrial accidents. The nature and level of
claims paid, historical trends involving claim payment statistical credibility. From that point in time forward,
• Historically, the case reserves set by the field catastrophes in any period cannot be reliably
patterns and pending levels of unpaid claims, loss reserves are reestimated using statistical actuarial
adjusting staff have not proven to be an entirely predicted.
management programs, product mix and contractual processes to reflect the impact actual loss trends have
accurate estimate of the ultimate cost of claims. To
terms, changes in law and regulation, judicial decisions, on development factors incorporated into the actuarial The estimation of claims and claims expense
provide for this, a development reserve is estimated
and economic conditions. When we experience estimation processes. reserves for catastrophe losses also comprises
using the processes described above and allocated
changes of the type previously mentioned, we apply estimates of losses from reported claims and IBNR,
to pending claims as a supplement to case Causes of reserve estimate uncertainty Since
actuarial judgment in the determination and selection primarily for damage to property. In general, our
reserves. reserves are estimates of unpaid portions of claims and
of development factors considered more reflective of estimates for catastrophe reserves are based on claim
claims expenses for claims that have occurred,
the new trends, such as combining shorter or longer Incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) adjuster inspections and the application of historical
including IBNR losses, the establishment of
periods of historical results with current actual results loss development factors as described above.
• Comprises about 10% of total reserves. appropriate reserves, including reserves for
to produce development factors based on two-year, However, depending on the nature of the catastrophe,
catastrophe losses, requires regular reevaluation and
three-year, or longer development periods to • IBNR can be a small percentage of reserves for the estimation process can be further complicated. For
refinement of estimates to determine our ultimate loss
reestimate our reserves. For example: relatively short-term claims, such as auto physical example, for hurricanes, complications could include
estimate.
damage claims, or a large percentage of reserves the inability of insureds to promptly report losses,
• The Coronavirus has had a significant impact on
for claims that have uncertain payout requirements At each reporting date, the highest degree of limitations placed on claims adjusting staff affecting
driving patterns and auto frequency and severity,
over a long period of time, such as auto injury and uncertainty in estimates for most of our losses from their ability to inspect losses, determining whether
including supply chain disruptions and labor
MCCA claims. ongoing businesses arise from claims remaining to be losses are covered by our homeowners policy
shortages, higher used car prices, labor and part
settled for the current accident year and the most (generally for damage caused by wind or wind driven
cost increases, unemployment levels, changes in All major components of reserves are affected by recent preceding accident year. The greatest degree of rain) or specifically excluded coverage caused by flood,
commuting activity and driving behavior that may changes in claim frequency as well as claim severity. uncertainty exists in the current accident year because exposure to mold damage, and the effects of
lead to historical development trends being less
predictive of future loss development, potentially Generally, the initial reserves for a new accident the current accident year contains the greatest numerous other considerations, including the timing of
creating additional reserve variability. year are established based on actual claim frequency proportion of losses that have not been reported or a catastrophe in relation to other events, such as at or
and severity assumptions for different business settled as well as heightened uncertainty for claims near the end of a financial reporting period, which can
• If a legal change is expected to have a significant segments, lines and coverages based on historical that involve litigation or take longer to settle during affect the availability of information needed to
impact on the development of claim severity for a relationships to relevant inflation indicators. Reserves periods of rapidly increasing loss costs, but must be estimate reserves for that reporting period. In these
coverage which is part of a particular line of for prior accident years are statistically determined estimated as of the current reporting date. Most of situations, we may need to adapt our practices to
insurance in a specific state, judgment is applied using processes described above. Changes in auto these losses relate to damaged property such as accommodate these circumstances in order to
to determine appropriate development factors claim frequency may result from changes in mix of automobiles and homes, and medical care for injuries determine a best estimate of our losses from a
that will most accurately reflect the expected business, driving behaviors, miles driven or other from accidents. During the first year after the end of an catastrophe. For example, to complete estimates for
impact on that specific estimate. macroeconomic factors. Changes in auto current year accident year, a large portion of the total losses for certain areas affected by catastrophes not yet
claim severity are generally influenced by inflation in that accident year are settled. When accident year inspected by our claims adjusting staff, or where we
• A change in economic conditions is expected to
the medical and auto repair sectors of the economy, losses paid through the end of the first year following believed our historical loss development factors were
affect the cost of repairs to damaged autos or
the effectiveness and efficiency of our claim practices the initial accident year are incorporated into updated not predictive, we rely on analysis of actual claim
property for a particular line, coverage, or state,
and changes in mix of claim type. Injury claims are actuarial estimates, the trends inherent in the notices received compared to total PIF, as well as
actuarial judgment is applied to determine
affected largely by medical inflation, treatment trends, settlement of claims emerge more clearly. After the visual, governmental and third-party information,
appropriate development factors to use in the
attorney representation and litigation costs while second year, the losses that we pay for an accident including aerial photos, using satellites, aircrafts and
reserve estimate that will most accurately reflect
physical damage claims are affected largely by auto year typically relate to claims that are more difficult to drones, area observations, and data on wind speed and
the expected impacts on severity development.
repair cost inflation, used car prices, length of claim settle, such as those involving serious injuries or flood depth to the extent available.
Case and supplemental reserves resolution and the timing of receipt of third-party litigation. Private passenger auto insurance provides a Potential reserve estimate variability The
• Typically, the case, including statistical case, and carrier claims. good illustration of the uncertainty of future loss aggregation of numerous components for each
estimates: our typical annual percentage payout of
supplemental development reserves comprise We mitigate these effects through various loss reserves remaining at December 31 for an accident business segment, line of insurance, major types of
about 90% of total reserves. management programs. For auto physical damage year is approximately 50% in the first year after the end losses (such as coverages and perils), and major states
or groups of states for reported losses and IBNR forms
• As claims are reported, for certain liability claims coverages, we monitor our rate of increase in average of the accident year, 20% in the second year, 10% in the the reserve liability recorded in the Consolidated
of sufficient size and complexity, the field cost per claim against the auto maintenance, repair, third year, 10% in the fourth year, and the remaining Statements of Financial Position. Because of this
adjusting staff establishes case reserve parts and equipment price indices. We believe our 10% thereafter. detailed approach to developing our reserve estimates,
claim settlement initiatives, such as improvements to
estimates of ultimate cost, based on their the claim review and settlement process, the use of Reserves for catastrophe losses Catastrophe there is not a single set of assumptions that
assessment of facts and circumstances related special investigative units to detect fraud and handle losses are an inherent risk of the property and casualty determines our reserve estimates at the consolidated
to each individual claim. suspect claims, litigation management and defense insurance industry that have contributed, and will level. Given the numerous estimates for reported
• For other claims which occur in large volumes strategies, as well as various other loss management continue to contribute, to potentially material year-to- losses and IBNR, management does not believe the
and settle in a relatively short time frame, it is initiatives underway, contribute to the mitigation of year fluctuations in our results of operations and processes that we follow will produce a statistically
not practical or efficient to set case reserves for injury and physical damage severity trends. financial position. We define a “catastrophe” as an credible or reliable actuarial reserve range that would
each claim, and a statistical case reserve is set event that produces pre-tax losses before reinsurance be meaningful. Reserve estimates, by their very nature,
for these claims based on estimation techniques Changes in homeowners current year claim in excess of $1 million and involves multiple first party are very complex to determine and subject to
described above. severity are generally influenced by inflation in the cost policyholders, or a winter weather event that produces significant judgment, and do not represent an exact
of building materials, the cost of construction and a number of claims in excess of a preset, per-event determination for each outstanding claim. Accordingly,
property repair services, the cost of replacing home threshold of average claims in a specific area, occurring as actual claims, paid losses, and case reserve results
194 2022 Annual Report
195 www.allstate.comApplication of Critical Accounting Estimates Application of Critical Accounting Estimates
emerge, our estimate of the ultimate cost to settle will comprehensive review and interpretation of MCCA Run-off Property-Liability reserve estimates many diverse business sectors throughout the country
be different than previously estimated. actuarial reports, other MCCA members’ reports and and did not include coverage to large asbestos
Characteristics of Run-off exposure Our exposure
our personal injury protection loss trends which have manufacturers.
To develop a statistical indication of potential to asbestos, environmental and other run-off claims
increased in severity over time. A significant portion of
reserve variability within reasonably likely possible arise principally from assumed reinsurance coverage How reserve estimates are established and
incurred claim reserves can be attributed to a small
outcomes, an actuarial technique (stochastic modeling) written during the 1960s through the mid-1980s, updated We conduct an annual review in the third
number of catastrophic claims and thus a large portion
is applied to the countrywide consolidated data including reinsurance on primary insurance written on quarter to evaluate, establish and adjust as necessary,
of the recoverable is similarly concentrated. We
elements for paid losses and paid losses combined large U.S. companies, and from direct excess asbestos, environmental and other run-off claims
conduct comprehensive claim file reviews to develop
with case reserves separately for injury losses, auto commercial insurance written from 1972 through 1985, reserves. Changes to reserves are recorded in the
case reserve type estimates of specific claims, which
physical damage losses, and homeowners losses including substantial excess general liability coverages reporting period in which they are determined. Using
inform our view of future claim development and
excluding catastrophe losses. Based on the combined on large U.S. companies. Additional exposure stems established industry and actuarial best practices and
longevity of claimants. Each year, we update the
historical variability of the development factors from direct primary commercial insurance written assuming no change in the regulatory or economic
actuarial estimate of our ultimate reserves and
calculated for these data elements, an estimate of the during the 1960s through the mid-1980s. Asbestos environment, this detailed and comprehensive
recoverables. We report our paid and unpaid claims
standard error or standard deviation around these claims relate primarily to bodily injuries asserted by methodology determines asbestos reserves based on
based on MCCA requirements. The MCCA develops its
reserve estimates is calculated within each accident claimants who were exposed to asbestos or products assessments of the characteristics of exposure (i.e.
own reserving estimates based on its own reserve
year for the last twelve years for each type of loss. The containing asbestos. Environmental claims relate claim activity, potential liability, jurisdiction, products
methodologies, which may not align with our
variability of these reserve estimates within one primarily to pollution and related clean-up costs. Other versus non-products exposure) presented by individual
estimations. The MCCA does not provide member
standard deviation of the mean (a measure of run-off claims exposures primarily relate to general policyholders, and determines environmental reserves
companies with its estimate of a company’s claim
frequency of dispersion often viewed to be an liability and product liability mass tort claims, such as based on assessments of the characteristics of
costs. We continue to update each comprehensive
acceptable level of accuracy) is believed by those for medical devices and other products, workers’ exposure (i.e. environmental damages, respective
claim file case reserve estimate when there is a
management to represent a reasonable and compensation claims and claims for various other shares of liability of potentially responsible parties,
significant change in the status of the claimant, or once
statistically probable measure of potential variability. coverage exposures other than asbestos and appropriateness and cost of remediation) to pollution
every three years if there have been no significant
Based on our products and coverages, historical environmental. and related clean-up costs. The number and cost of
changes.
experience, the statistical credibility of our extensive these claims are affected by advertising by trial
In 1986, the general liability policy form used by us
data and stochastic modeling of actuarial chain ladder We provide similar personal injury protection lawyers seeking asbestos plaintiffs, and entities with
and others in the property and casualty industry was
methodologies used to develop reserve estimates, we coverage in New Jersey for auto policies issued or asbestos exposure seeking bankruptcy protection as a
amended to introduce an “absolute pollution
estimate that the potential variability of our Allstate renewed in New Jersey prior to 1991 that is result of asbestos liabilities, initially causing a delay in
exclusion,” which excluded coverage for environmental
Protection reserves, excluding reserves for catastrophe administered by PLIGA. We use similar actuarial the reporting of claims, often followed by an
damage claims, and to add an asbestos exclusion.
losses, within a reasonable possibility of other estimating techniques as for the MCCA exposures to acceleration and an increase in claims and claims
Most general liability policies issued prior to 1987
outcomes, may be approximately plus or minus 5.5%, estimate loss reserves for unlimited personal injury expenses as settlements occur.
contain annual aggregate limits for product liability
or plus or minus $1.4 billion in net income applicable to protection coverage for policies covered by PLIGA. We
coverage. General liability policies issued in 1987 and After evaluating our insureds’ probable liabilities
common shareholders. Although this evaluation continue to update our estimates for these claims as
thereafter contain annual aggregate limits for product for asbestos, environmental and other run-off claims,
reflects most reasonably likely outcomes, it is possible the status of claimant’s changes. However, unlimited
liability coverage and annual aggregate limits for all we evaluate our insureds’ coverage programs for such
the final outcome may fall below or above these coverage was no longer offered after 1991; therefore,
coverages. Our experience to date is that these policy claims. We consider our insureds’ total available
amounts. Historical variability of reserve estimates is no new claimants are being added.
form changes have limited the extent of our exposure insurance coverage, including the coverage we issued.
reported in the Claims and Claims Expense Reserves
Reserve estimates are confidential and proprietary to environmental and asbestos claim risks. We also consider relevant judicial interpretations of
section of the MD&A.
and by their nature are very complex to determine and policy language and applicable coverage defenses or
Our exposure to liability for asbestos,
The Company regularly updates its reserve subject to significant judgments. Reserve estimates do determinations, if any.
environmental and other run-off claims losses
estimates as new information becomes available and not represent an exact determination for each
manifests differently depending on whether it arises Evaluation of both the insureds’ estimated
as events unfold that may affect the resolution of outstanding claim. Claims may be subject to litigation.
from assumed reinsurance coverage, direct excess liabilities and our exposure to the insureds depends
unsettled claims. Changes in reserve estimates, which As actual claims, paid losses and case reserve results
commercial insurance or direct primary commercial heavily on an analysis of the relevant legal issues and
may be material, are reported in property and casualty emerge, our estimate of the ultimate cost to settle may
insurance. litigation environment. This analysis is conducted by
insurance claims and claims expense in the be materially greater or less than previously estimated
our specialized claims adjusting staff and legal counsel.
Consolidated Statements of Operations in the period amounts. Direct excess commercial insurance and
Based on these evaluations, case reserves are
such changes are determined. Management believes reinsurance involve coverage written by us for specific
For additional information related to established by claims adjusting staff and actuarial
that the reserve for property and casualty insurance layers of protection above retentions and other
indemnification recoverables, see Form 10-K Item 1 - analysis is employed to develop an IBNR reserve, which
claims and claims expense, net of recoverables, is insurance plans and largely has resulted in asbestos,
Regulation, Indemnification Programs and Note 11 of includes estimated potential reserve development and
appropriately established in the aggregate and environmental and mass tort claims. The nature of
the consolidated financial statements. claims that have occurred but have not been reported.
adequate to cover the ultimate net cost of reported excess coverage and reinsurance provided to other
As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, IBNR was 55.9% and
and unreported claims arising from losses which had Adequacy of reserve estimates We believe our net insurers limits our exposure to loss to specific layers of
54.8%, respectively, of combined net asbestos and
occurred by the date of the Consolidated Statements claims and claims expense reserves are appropriately protection in excess of policyholder retention on their
environmental reserves.
of Financial Position based on available facts, laws and established based on available methodologies, facts, primary insurance plans. Our exposure is further
regulations. laws and regulations. Additionally, we rely on historical limited by the significant reinsurance that we had For both asbestos and environmental reserves, we
claims experience to inform the level of the recorded purchased on our direct excess business. also evaluate our historical direct net loss and expense
Reserves for Michigan and New Jersey unlimited
reserve. We calculate and record a single best reserve paid and incurred experience to assess any emerging
personal injury protection Claims and claims expense Our assumed reinsurance business involved
estimate, in conformance with generally accepted trends, fluctuations or characteristics suggested by the
reserves include reserves for Michigan mandatory writing generally small participations in other insurers’
actuarial standards and practices, for each line of aggregate paid and incurred activity. Other run-off
unlimited personal injury protection coverage to reinsurance programs. The reinsured losses in which
insurance, its components (coverages and perils) and claims reserves are based on considerations similar to
insureds involved in qualifying motor vehicle accidents. we participate may be a proportion of all eligible losses
state, for reported losses and for IBNR losses, and as a those described above, as they relate to the
The administration of this program is through the or eligible losses in excess of defined retentions. Of the
result we believe that no other estimate is better than characteristics of specific individual coverage
MCCA, a state-mandated, non-profit association of majority of our assumed reinsurance exposure,
our recorded amount. Due to the uncertainties exposures.
which all insurers actively writing automobile coverage approximately 85%, is for excess of loss coverage, while
involved, the ultimate cost of losses may vary
in Michigan are members. the remaining 15% is for pro-rata coverage. Potential reserve estimate variability Establishing
materially from recorded amounts, which are based on
Run-off Property-Liability net loss reserves for
The process employed to estimate MCCA covered our best estimates. Our direct primary commercial insurance business
asbestos, environmental and other run-off claims is
losses involves a number of activities including the comprises a cross section of policyholders engaged in
196 2022 Annual Report
197 www.allstate.comApplication of Critical Accounting Estimates Application of Critical Accounting Estimates
emerge, our estimate of the ultimate cost to settle will comprehensive review and interpretation of MCCA Run-off Property-Liability reserve estimates many diverse business sectors throughout the country
be different than previously estimated. actuarial reports, other MCCA members’ reports and and did not include coverage to large asbestos
Characteristics of Run-off exposure Our exposure
our personal injury protection loss trends which have manufacturers.
To develop a statistical indication of potential to asbestos, environmental and other run-off claims
increased in severity over time. A significant portion of
reserve variability within reasonably likely possible arise principally from assumed reinsurance coverage How reserve estimates are established and
incurred claim reserves can be attributed to a small
outcomes, an actuarial technique (stochastic modeling) written during the 1960s through the mid-1980s, updated We conduct an annual review in the third
number of catastrophic claims and thus a large portion
is applied to the countrywide consolidated data including reinsurance on primary insurance written on quarter to evaluate, establish and adjust as necessary,
of the recoverable is similarly concentrated. We
elements for paid losses and paid losses combined large U.S. companies, and from direct excess asbestos, environmental and other run-off claims
conduct comprehensive claim file reviews to develop
with case reserves separately for injury losses, auto commercial insurance written from 1972 through 1985, reserves. Changes to reserves are recorded in the
case reserve type estimates of specific claims, which
physical damage losses, and homeowners losses including substantial excess general liability coverages reporting period in which they are determined. Using
inform our view of future claim development and
excluding catastrophe losses. Based on the combined on large U.S. companies. Additional exposure stems established industry and actuarial best practices and
longevity of claimants. Each year, we update the
historical variability of the development factors from direct primary commercial insurance written assuming no change in the regulatory or economic
actuarial estimate of our ultimate reserves and
calculated for these data elements, an estimate of the during the 1960s through the mid-1980s. Asbestos environment, this detailed and comprehensive
recoverables. We report our paid and unpaid claims
standard error or standard deviation around these claims relate primarily to bodily injuries asserted by methodology determines asbestos reserves based on
based on MCCA requirements. The MCCA develops its
reserve estimates is calculated within each accident claimants who were exposed to asbestos or products assessments of the characteristics of exposure (i.e.
own reserving estimates based on its own reserve
year for the last twelve years for each type of loss. The containing asbestos. Environmental claims relate claim activity, potential liability, jurisdiction, products
methodologies, which may not align with our
variability of these reserve estimates within one primarily to pollution and related clean-up costs. Other versus non-products exposure) presented by individual
estimations. The MCCA does not provide member
standard deviation of the mean (a measure of run-off claims exposures primarily relate to general policyholders, and determines environmental reserves
companies with its estimate of a company’s claim
frequency of dispersion often viewed to be an liability and product liability mass tort claims, such as based on assessments of the characteristics of
costs. We continue to update each comprehensive
acceptable level of accuracy) is believed by those for medical devices and other products, workers’ exposure (i.e. environmental damages, respective
claim file case reserve estimate when there is a
management to represent a reasonable and compensation claims and claims for various other shares of liability of potentially responsible parties,
significant change in the status of the claimant, or once
statistically probable measure of potential variability. coverage exposures other than asbestos and appropriateness and cost of remediation) to pollution
every three years if there have been no significant
Based on our products and coverages, historical environmental. and related clean-up costs. The number and cost of
changes.
experience, the statistical credibility of our extensive these claims are affected by advertising by trial
In 1986, the general liability policy form used by us
data and stochastic modeling of actuarial chain ladder We provide similar personal injury protection lawyers seeking asbestos plaintiffs, and entities with
and others in the property and casualty industry was
methodologies used to develop reserve estimates, we coverage in New Jersey for auto policies issued or asbestos exposure seeking bankruptcy protection as a
amended to introduce an “absolute pollution
estimate that the potential variability of our Allstate renewed in New Jersey prior to 1991 that is result of asbestos liabilities, initially causing a delay in
exclusion,” which excluded coverage for environmental
Protection reserves, excluding reserves for catastrophe administered by PLIGA. We use similar actuarial the reporting of claims, often followed by an
damage claims, and to add an asbestos exclusion.
losses, within a reasonable possibility of other estimating techniques as for the MCCA exposures to acceleration and an increase in claims and claims
Most general liability policies issued prior to 1987
outcomes, may be approximately plus or minus 5.5%, estimate loss reserves for unlimited personal injury expenses as settlements occur.
contain annual aggregate limits for product liability
or plus or minus $1.4 billion in net income applicable to protection coverage for policies covered by PLIGA. We
coverage. General liability policies issued in 1987 and After evaluating our insureds’ probable liabilities
common shareholders. Although this evaluation continue to update our estimates for these claims as
thereafter contain annual aggregate limits for product for asbestos, environmental and other run-off claims,
reflects most reasonably likely outcomes, it is possible the status of claimant’s changes. However, unlimited
liability coverage and annual aggregate limits for all we evaluate our insureds’ coverage programs for such
the final outcome may fall below or above these coverage was no longer offered after 1991; therefore,
coverages. Our experience to date is that these policy claims. We consider our insureds’ total available
amounts. Historical variability of reserve estimates is no new claimants are being added.
form changes have limited the extent of our exposure insurance coverage, including the coverage we issued.
reported in the Claims and Claims Expense Reserves
Reserve estimates are confidential and proprietary to environmental and asbestos claim risks. We also consider relevant judicial interpretations of
section of the MD&A.
and by their nature are very complex to determine and policy language and applicable coverage defenses or
Our exposure to liability for asbestos,
The Company regularly updates its reserve subject to significant judgments. Reserve estimates do determinations, if any.
environmental and other run-off claims losses
estimates as new information becomes available and not represent an exact determination for each
manifests differently depending on whether it arises Evaluation of both the insureds’ estimated
as events unfold that may affect the resolution of outstanding claim. Claims may be subject to litigation.
from assumed reinsurance coverage, direct excess liabilities and our exposure to the insureds depends
unsettled claims. Changes in reserve estimates, which As actual claims, paid losses and case reserve results
commercial insurance or direct primary commercial heavily on an analysis of the relevant legal issues and
may be material, are reported in property and casualty emerge, our estimate of the ultimate cost to settle may
insurance. litigation environment. This analysis is conducted by
insurance claims and claims expense in the be materially greater or less than previously estimated
our specialized claims adjusting staff and legal counsel.
Consolidated Statements of Operations in the period amounts. Direct excess commercial insurance and
Based on these evaluations, case reserves are
such changes are determined. Management believes reinsurance involve coverage written by us for specific
For additional information related to established by claims adjusting staff and actuarial
that the reserve for property and casualty insurance layers of protection above retentions and other
indemnification recoverables, see Form 10-K Item 1 - analysis is employed to develop an IBNR reserve, which
claims and claims expense, net of recoverables, is insurance plans and largely has resulted in asbestos,
Regulation, Indemnification Programs and Note 11 of includes estimated potential reserve development and
appropriately established in the aggregate and environmental and mass tort claims. The nature of
the consolidated financial statements. claims that have occurred but have not been reported.
adequate to cover the ultimate net cost of reported excess coverage and reinsurance provided to other
As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, IBNR was 55.9% and
and unreported claims arising from losses which had Adequacy of reserve estimates We believe our net insurers limits our exposure to loss to specific layers of
54.8%, respectively, of combined net asbestos and
occurred by the date of the Consolidated Statements claims and claims expense reserves are appropriately protection in excess of policyholder retention on their
environmental reserves.
of Financial Position based on available facts, laws and established based on available methodologies, facts, primary insurance plans. Our exposure is further
regulations. laws and regulations. Additionally, we rely on historical limited by the significant reinsurance that we had For both asbestos and environmental reserves, we
claims experience to inform the level of the recorded purchased on our direct excess business. also evaluate our historical direct net loss and expense
Reserves for Michigan and New Jersey unlimited
reserve. We calculate and record a single best reserve paid and incurred experience to assess any emerging
personal injury protection Claims and claims expense Our assumed reinsurance business involved
estimate, in conformance with generally accepted trends, fluctuations or characteristics suggested by the
reserves include reserves for Michigan mandatory writing generally small participations in other insurers’
actuarial standards and practices, for each line of aggregate paid and incurred activity. Other run-off
unlimited personal injury protection coverage to reinsurance programs. The reinsured losses in which
insurance, its components (coverages and perils) and claims reserves are based on considerations similar to
insureds involved in qualifying motor vehicle accidents. we participate may be a proportion of all eligible losses
state, for reported losses and for IBNR losses, and as a those described above, as they relate to the
The administration of this program is through the or eligible losses in excess of defined retentions. Of the
result we believe that no other estimate is better than characteristics of specific individual coverage
MCCA, a state-mandated, non-profit association of majority of our assumed reinsurance exposure,
our recorded amount. Due to the uncertainties exposures.
which all insurers actively writing automobile coverage approximately 85%, is for excess of loss coverage, while
involved, the ultimate cost of losses may vary
in Michigan are members. the remaining 15% is for pro-rata coverage. Potential reserve estimate variability Establishing
materially from recorded amounts, which are based on
Run-off Property-Liability net loss reserves for
The process employed to estimate MCCA covered our best estimates. Our direct primary commercial insurance business
asbestos, environmental and other run-off claims is
losses involves a number of activities including the comprises a cross section of policyholders engaged in
196 2022 Annual Report
197 www.allstate.comApplication of Critical Accounting Estimates Application of Critical Accounting Estimates
subject to uncertainties that are much greater than consolidated financial statements and the Claims and postretirement obligations as of the measurement Pension and other postretirement service cost,
those presented by other types of property and Claims Expense Reserves section of the MD&A. date; 2) differences between the expected and the interest cost, expected return on plan assets and
casualty claims. Among the complications are lack of actual return on plan assets; 3) changes in amortization of prior service credits are allocated to
Pension and other postretirement plans net
historical data, long reporting delays, uncertainty as to demographic assumptions, including mortality and our reportable segments. The pension and other
costs and assumptions Our defined benefit pension
the number and identity of insureds with potential participant experience; and 4) changes in lump sum postretirement remeasurement gains and losses are
plans cover most full-time employees, certain part-
exposure and unresolved legal issues regarding policy interest rates used to value pension obligations as of reported in the Corporate and Other segment.
time employees and employee-agents. Benefits are
coverage; unresolved legal issues regarding the the measurement date.
provided to plan participants based on a cash balance
determination, availability and timing of exhaustion of
formula. Certain participants also have a significant
policy limits; plaintiffs’ evolving and expanding theories Pension and postretirement benefits remeasurement gains and losses
portion of their benefits attributable to a former final
of liability; availability and collectability of recoveries For the years ended December 31,
average pay formula. 80% of the projected benefit
from reinsurance; retrospectively determined
obligation (“PBO”) of our primary qualified employee ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
premiums and other contractual agreements;
plan is related to the former final average pay formula. Remeasurement of projected benefit obligation (gains) losses:
estimates of the extent and timing of any contractual
See Note 18 of the consolidated financial statements Discount rate $ (1,268) $ (285) $ 553
liability; the impact of bankruptcy protection sought by
for a discussion of these plans and their effect on the Other assumptions (176) (40) 282
various asbestos producers and other asbestos
defendants; and other uncertainties. There are also consolidated financial statements. Remeasurement of plan assets (gains) losses 1,560 (319) (886)
complex legal issues concerning the interpretation of Our pension and other postretirement benefit Remeasurement (gains) losses $ 116 $ (644) $ (51)
various insurance policy provisions and whether those costs are calculated using various actuarial
losses are covered, or were ever intended to be assumptions and methodologies. These assumptions Impact of assumption changes to net cost for The expected long-term rate of return on plan
covered, and could be recoverable through include discount rates, health care cost trend rates, pension and other postretirement plans assets reflects the average rate of earnings expected
retrospectively determined premium, reinsurance or inflation, expected returns on plan assets, mortality Remeasurement losses in 2022 primarily related to on plan assets. While this rate reflects long-term
other contractual agreements. Courts have reached and other factors. The assumptions utilized in unfavorable asset performance compared to the assumptions and is consistent with long-term historical
different and sometimes inconsistent conclusions as to recording the obligations under our pension plans expected return on plan assets, partially offset by a returns, sustained changes in the market or changes in
when losses are deemed to have occurred and which represent our best estimates and we believe they are reduction in the projected benefit obligation due to an the mix of plan assets may lead to revisions in the
policies provide coverage; what types of losses are reasonable based on information as to historical increase in the liability discount rate and changes in assumed long-term rate of return on plan assets that
covered; whether there is an insurer obligation to experience and performance as well as other factors other assumptions, primarily related to an increase in may result in variability of pension cost. Differences
defend; how policy limits are determined; how policy that might cause future expectations to differ from the long-term lump sum interest rate. Remeasurement between the actual return on plan assets and the
exclusions and conditions are applied and interpreted; past trends. gains in 2021 primarily related to favorable asset expected long-term rate of return on plan assets are
and whether clean-up costs represent insured property performance compared to the expected return on plan immediately recognized through earnings upon
damage. Our reserves for asbestos, environmental and Net costs for our defined benefit plans are assets and an increase in the liability discount rate. remeasurement. Short-term asset performance can
other run-off exposures could be affected by tort recognized on the Consolidated Statements of differ significantly from the expected rate of return,
reform, class action litigation, and other potential Operations and consist of two elements: 1) costs The discount rate is based on rates at which especially in volatile markets. In 2022, the actual return
legislation and judicial decisions. Environmental comprised of service and interest costs, expected expected pension benefits attributable to past on plan assets was lower than the expected return
exposures could also be affected by a change in the return of plan assets, amortization of prior service employee service could effectively be settled on a primarily due to higher interest rates, widening credit
existing federal Superfund law and similar state credit and curtailment gains and losses which are present value basis at the measurement date. We spreads and weak equity market performance. In 2021,
statutes. There can be no assurance that any reform reported in property and casualty claims and claims develop the assumed discount rate by utilizing the the actual return on plan assets was higher than the
legislation will be enacted or that any such legislation expense, operating costs and expenses, net weighted average yield of a theoretical dedicated expected return primarily due to strong equity market
will provide for a fair, effective and cost-efficient investment income and, if applicable, restructuring and portfolio derived from non-callable bonds and callable performance.
related charges and 2) remeasurement gains and bonds with a make-whole provision available in the
system for settlement of asbestos or environmental
losses comprised of changes in actuarial assumptions Bloomberg corporate bond universe having ratings of We complete periodic evaluations of demographic
claims. We believe these issues are not likely to be
and the difference between actual and expected at least “AA” by S&P or at least “Aa” by Moody’s on the information and historical experience that affects our
resolved in the near future, and the ultimate costs may
returns on plan assets which are recognized measurement date with cash flows that match pension and other postretirement obligations to
vary materially from the amounts currently recorded
immediately in earnings as part of pension and other expected plan benefit requirements. Significant identify any required changes to long-term actuarial
resulting in material changes in loss reserves. Historical
postretirement remeasurement gains and losses. changes in discount rates, such as those caused by assumptions and methodologies. Demographic
variability of reserve estimates is demonstrated in the
changes in the credit spreads, yield curve, the mix of assumptions affect both our pension and
Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section of the We recognize expected returns on plan assets bonds available in the market, the duration of selected postretirement plans and include elements such as
MD&A. using an unadjusted fair value method. Our policy is to bonds and expected benefit payments, may result in retirement rates and participation rates in our
Adequacy of reserve estimates Management remeasure our pension and postretirement plans on a volatility in pension cost. Due to increased corporate postretirement programs, among other factors.
believes its net loss reserves for asbestos, quarterly basis. We immediately recognize bond yields in 2022, the weighted average discount
environmental and other run-off claims exposures are remeasurement of projected benefit obligation and rate used to measure the benefit obligation increased These actuarial assumption updates affect our
appropriately established based on available facts, plan assets in earnings as it provides greater to 5.64% in 2022 compared to 2.93% in 2021, resulting pension and other postretirement obligations and are
laws, regulations, and assessments of other pertinent transparency of our economic obligations in in remeasurement gains for 2022. incorporated into our best estimates of these
accounting results and better aligns the recognition of assumptions. Remeasurement gains for other
factors and characteristics of exposure (i.e. claim
the effects of economic and interest rate changes on assumptions in 2022 primarily related to an increase in
activity, potential liability, jurisdiction, products versus
pension and other postretirement plan assets and the long-term lump sum interest rate.
non-products exposure) presented by individual
liabilities in the year in which the gains and losses are
policyholders, assuming no change in the legal,
incurred. Impact of assumption changes to net periodic pension cost as of December 31, 2022
legislative or economic environment. Due to the
uncertainties and factors described above, Differences in actual experience and changes in Basis/percentage Increase (decrease)
management believes it is not practicable to develop a other assumptions affect our pension and other ($ in millions) point change to net cost, pre-tax
meaningful range for any such additional net loss postretirement obligations and expenses. Differences Pension plans discount rate +100 basis points $ (404)
reserves that may be required. between expected and actual returns on plan assets -100 basis points 485
affect remeasurement gains and losses. The primary +100 basis points (42)
Further discussion of reserve estimates For further Expected long-term rate of return on assets
factors contributing to pension and postretirement -100 basis points 42
discussion of these estimates and quantification of the
remeasurement gains and losses are: 1) changes in the
impact of reserve estimates, reserve reestimates and
discount rate used to value pension and
assumptions, see Note 9 and Note 15 of the
198 2022 Annual Report
199 www.allstate.comApplication of Critical Accounting Estimates Application of Critical Accounting Estimates
subject to uncertainties that are much greater than consolidated financial statements and the Claims and postretirement obligations as of the measurement Pension and other postretirement service cost,
those presented by other types of property and Claims Expense Reserves section of the MD&A. date; 2) differences between the expected and the interest cost, expected return on plan assets and
casualty claims. Among the complications are lack of actual return on plan assets; 3) changes in amortization of prior service credits are allocated to
Pension and other postretirement plans net
historical data, long reporting delays, uncertainty as to demographic assumptions, including mortality and our reportable segments. The pension and other
costs and assumptions Our defined benefit pension
the number and identity of insureds with potential participant experience; and 4) changes in lump sum postretirement remeasurement gains and losses are
plans cover most full-time employees, certain part-
exposure and unresolved legal issues regarding policy interest rates used to value pension obligations as of reported in the Corporate and Other segment.
time employees and employee-agents. Benefits are
coverage; unresolved legal issues regarding the the measurement date.
provided to plan participants based on a cash balance
determination, availability and timing of exhaustion of
formula. Certain participants also have a significant
policy limits; plaintiffs’ evolving and expanding theories Pension and postretirement benefits remeasurement gains and losses
portion of their benefits attributable to a former final
of liability; availability and collectability of recoveries For the years ended December 31,
average pay formula. 80% of the projected benefit
from reinsurance; retrospectively determined
obligation (“PBO”) of our primary qualified employee ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
premiums and other contractual agreements;
plan is related to the former final average pay formula. Remeasurement of projected benefit obligation (gains) losses:
estimates of the extent and timing of any contractual
See Note 18 of the consolidated financial statements Discount rate $ (1,268) $ (285) $ 553
liability; the impact of bankruptcy protection sought by
for a discussion of these plans and their effect on the Other assumptions (176) (40) 282
various asbestos producers and other asbestos
defendants; and other uncertainties. There are also consolidated financial statements. Remeasurement of plan assets (gains) losses 1,560 (319) (886)
complex legal issues concerning the interpretation of Our pension and other postretirement benefit Remeasurement (gains) losses $ 116 $ (644) $ (51)
various insurance policy provisions and whether those costs are calculated using various actuarial
losses are covered, or were ever intended to be assumptions and methodologies. These assumptions Impact of assumption changes to net cost for The expected long-term rate of return on plan
covered, and could be recoverable through include discount rates, health care cost trend rates, pension and other postretirement plans assets reflects the average rate of earnings expected
retrospectively determined premium, reinsurance or inflation, expected returns on plan assets, mortality Remeasurement losses in 2022 primarily related to on plan assets. While this rate reflects long-term
other contractual agreements. Courts have reached and other factors. The assumptions utilized in unfavorable asset performance compared to the assumptions and is consistent with long-term historical
different and sometimes inconsistent conclusions as to recording the obligations under our pension plans expected return on plan assets, partially offset by a returns, sustained changes in the market or changes in
when losses are deemed to have occurred and which represent our best estimates and we believe they are reduction in the projected benefit obligation due to an the mix of plan assets may lead to revisions in the
policies provide coverage; what types of losses are reasonable based on information as to historical increase in the liability discount rate and changes in assumed long-term rate of return on plan assets that
covered; whether there is an insurer obligation to experience and performance as well as other factors other assumptions, primarily related to an increase in may result in variability of pension cost. Differences
defend; how policy limits are determined; how policy that might cause future expectations to differ from the long-term lump sum interest rate. Remeasurement between the actual return on plan assets and the
exclusions and conditions are applied and interpreted; past trends. gains in 2021 primarily related to favorable asset expected long-term rate of return on plan assets are
and whether clean-up costs represent insured property performance compared to the expected return on plan immediately recognized through earnings upon
damage. Our reserves for asbestos, environmental and Net costs for our defined benefit plans are assets and an increase in the liability discount rate. remeasurement. Short-term asset performance can
other run-off exposures could be affected by tort recognized on the Consolidated Statements of differ significantly from the expected rate of return,
reform, class action litigation, and other potential Operations and consist of two elements: 1) costs The discount rate is based on rates at which especially in volatile markets. In 2022, the actual return
legislation and judicial decisions. Environmental comprised of service and interest costs, expected expected pension benefits attributable to past on plan assets was lower than the expected return
exposures could also be affected by a change in the return of plan assets, amortization of prior service employee service could effectively be settled on a primarily due to higher interest rates, widening credit
existing federal Superfund law and similar state credit and curtailment gains and losses which are present value basis at the measurement date. We spreads and weak equity market performance. In 2021,
statutes. There can be no assurance that any reform reported in property and casualty claims and claims develop the assumed discount rate by utilizing the the actual return on plan assets was higher than the
legislation will be enacted or that any such legislation expense, operating costs and expenses, net weighted average yield of a theoretical dedicated expected return primarily due to strong equity market
will provide for a fair, effective and cost-efficient investment income and, if applicable, restructuring and portfolio derived from non-callable bonds and callable performance.
related charges and 2) remeasurement gains and bonds with a make-whole provision available in the
system for settlement of asbestos or environmental
losses comprised of changes in actuarial assumptions Bloomberg corporate bond universe having ratings of We complete periodic evaluations of demographic
claims. We believe these issues are not likely to be
and the difference between actual and expected at least “AA” by S&P or at least “Aa” by Moody’s on the information and historical experience that affects our
resolved in the near future, and the ultimate costs may
returns on plan assets which are recognized measurement date with cash flows that match pension and other postretirement obligations to
vary materially from the amounts currently recorded
immediately in earnings as part of pension and other expected plan benefit requirements. Significant identify any required changes to long-term actuarial
resulting in material changes in loss reserves. Historical
postretirement remeasurement gains and losses. changes in discount rates, such as those caused by assumptions and methodologies. Demographic
variability of reserve estimates is demonstrated in the
changes in the credit spreads, yield curve, the mix of assumptions affect both our pension and
Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section of the We recognize expected returns on plan assets bonds available in the market, the duration of selected postretirement plans and include elements such as
MD&A. using an unadjusted fair value method. Our policy is to bonds and expected benefit payments, may result in retirement rates and participation rates in our
Adequacy of reserve estimates Management remeasure our pension and postretirement plans on a volatility in pension cost. Due to increased corporate postretirement programs, among other factors.
believes its net loss reserves for asbestos, quarterly basis. We immediately recognize bond yields in 2022, the weighted average discount
environmental and other run-off claims exposures are remeasurement of projected benefit obligation and rate used to measure the benefit obligation increased These actuarial assumption updates affect our
appropriately established based on available facts, plan assets in earnings as it provides greater to 5.64% in 2022 compared to 2.93% in 2021, resulting pension and other postretirement obligations and are
laws, regulations, and assessments of other pertinent transparency of our economic obligations in in remeasurement gains for 2022. incorporated into our best estimates of these
accounting results and better aligns the recognition of assumptions. Remeasurement gains for other
factors and characteristics of exposure (i.e. claim
the effects of economic and interest rate changes on assumptions in 2022 primarily related to an increase in
activity, potential liability, jurisdiction, products versus
pension and other postretirement plan assets and the long-term lump sum interest rate.
non-products exposure) presented by individual
liabilities in the year in which the gains and losses are
policyholders, assuming no change in the legal,
incurred. Impact of assumption changes to net periodic pension cost as of December 31, 2022
legislative or economic environment. Due to the
uncertainties and factors described above, Differences in actual experience and changes in Basis/percentage Increase (decrease)
management believes it is not practicable to develop a other assumptions affect our pension and other ($ in millions) point change to net cost, pre-tax
meaningful range for any such additional net loss postretirement obligations and expenses. Differences Pension plans discount rate +100 basis points $ (404)
reserves that may be required. between expected and actual returns on plan assets -100 basis points 485
affect remeasurement gains and losses. The primary +100 basis points (42)
Further discussion of reserve estimates For further Expected long-term rate of return on assets
factors contributing to pension and postretirement -100 basis points 42
discussion of these estimates and quantification of the
remeasurement gains and losses are: 1) changes in the
impact of reserve estimates, reserve reestimates and
discount rate used to value pension and
assumptions, see Note 9 and Note 15 of the
198 2022 Annual Report
199 www.allstate.comRegulation and Legal Proceedings and Pending Accounting Standards Financial Statements
Regulation and Legal Proceedings The Allstate Corporation and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Operations
We are subject to extensive regulation and we are
involved in various legal and regulatory actions, all of
Years Ended December 31,
which have an effect on specific aspects of our
($ in millions, except per share data) 2022 2021 2020
business. For a detailed discussion of the legal and
Revenues
regulatory actions in which we are involved, see
Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements. Property and casualty insurance premiums (net of reinsurance ceded and
indemnification programs of $1,869, $1,904 and $1,141) $ 45,904 $ 42,218 $ 37,073
Pending Accounting Standard Accident and health insurance premiums and contract charges (net of
reinsurance ceded of $38, $78 and $13) 1,833 1,821 1,094
There is a pending accounting standard that we
Other revenue 2,344 2,172 1,065
have not implemented because the implementation
Net investment income 2,403 3,293 1,590
date has not yet occurred. For a discussion of this
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives (1,072) 1,084 1,087
pending standard, see Note 2 of the consolidated
Total revenues 51,412 50,588 41,909
financial statements.
The effect of implementing certain accounting Costs and expenses
standards on our financial results and financial Property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense
condition is often based in part on market conditions (net of reinsurance ceded and indemnification programs of $1,600, $3,484
at the time of implementation of the standard and and $530) 37,264 29,318 22,001
other factors we are unable to determine prior to Shelter-in-Place Payback expense — 29 948
implementation. For this reason, we are sometimes Accident, health and other policy benefits (net of reinsurance ceded of
unable to estimate the effect of certain pending $28, $86 and $15) 1,061 1,049 549
accounting standards until the relevant authoritative Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs 6,644 6,252 5,477
body finalizes these standards or until we implement Operating costs and expenses 7,446 7,260 5,494
them.
Pension and other postretirement remeasurement (gains) losses 116 (644) (51)
Restructuring and related charges 51 170 253
Amortization of purchased intangibles 353 376 118
Interest expense 335 330 318
Total costs and expenses 53,270 44,140 35,107
(Loss) income from operations before income tax expense (1,858) 6,448 6,802
Income tax (benefit) expense (494) 1,289 1,373
Net (loss) income from continuing operations (1,364) 5,159 5,429
(Loss) income from discontinued operations, net of tax — (3,593) 147
Net (loss) income (1,364) 1,566 5,576
Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (53) (33) —
Net (loss) income attributable to Allstate (1,311) 1,599 5,576
Less: Preferred stock dividends 105 114 115
Net (loss) income applicable to common shareholders $ (1,416) $ 1,485 $ 5,461
Earnings per common share applicable to common shareholders
Basic
Continuing operations $ (5.22) $ 17.23 $ 17.06
Discontinued operations — (12.19) 0.47
Total $ (5.22) $ 5.04 $ 17.53
Diluted
Continuing operations $ (5.22) $ 16.98 $ 16.84
Discontinued operations — (12.02) 0.47
Total $ (5.22) $ 4.96 $ 17.31
Weighted average common shares - Basic 271.2 294.8 311.6
Weighted average common shares - Diluted 271.2 299.1 315.5
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
200 2022 Annual Report
201 www.allstate.comRegulation and Legal Proceedings and Pending Accounting Standards Financial Statements
Regulation and Legal Proceedings The Allstate Corporation and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Operations
We are subject to extensive regulation and we are
involved in various legal and regulatory actions, all of
Years Ended December 31,
which have an effect on specific aspects of our
($ in millions, except per share data) 2022 2021 2020
business. For a detailed discussion of the legal and
Revenues
regulatory actions in which we are involved, see
Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements. Property and casualty insurance premiums (net of reinsurance ceded and
indemnification programs of $1,869, $1,904 and $1,141) $ 45,904 $ 42,218 $ 37,073
Pending Accounting Standard Accident and health insurance premiums and contract charges (net of
reinsurance ceded of $38, $78 and $13) 1,833 1,821 1,094
There is a pending accounting standard that we
Other revenue 2,344 2,172 1,065
have not implemented because the implementation
Net investment income 2,403 3,293 1,590
date has not yet occurred. For a discussion of this
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives (1,072) 1,084 1,087
pending standard, see Note 2 of the consolidated
Total revenues 51,412 50,588 41,909
financial statements.
The effect of implementing certain accounting Costs and expenses
standards on our financial results and financial Property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense
condition is often based in part on market conditions (net of reinsurance ceded and indemnification programs of $1,600, $3,484
at the time of implementation of the standard and and $530) 37,264 29,318 22,001
other factors we are unable to determine prior to Shelter-in-Place Payback expense — 29 948
implementation. For this reason, we are sometimes Accident, health and other policy benefits (net of reinsurance ceded of
unable to estimate the effect of certain pending $28, $86 and $15) 1,061 1,049 549
accounting standards until the relevant authoritative Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs 6,644 6,252 5,477
body finalizes these standards or until we implement Operating costs and expenses 7,446 7,260 5,494
them.
Pension and other postretirement remeasurement (gains) losses 116 (644) (51)
Restructuring and related charges 51 170 253
Amortization of purchased intangibles 353 376 118
Interest expense 335 330 318
Total costs and expenses 53,270 44,140 35,107
(Loss) income from operations before income tax expense (1,858) 6,448 6,802
Income tax (benefit) expense (494) 1,289 1,373
Net (loss) income from continuing operations (1,364) 5,159 5,429
(Loss) income from discontinued operations, net of tax — (3,593) 147
Net (loss) income (1,364) 1,566 5,576
Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (53) (33) —
Net (loss) income attributable to Allstate (1,311) 1,599 5,576
Less: Preferred stock dividends 105 114 115
Net (loss) income applicable to common shareholders $ (1,416) $ 1,485 $ 5,461
Earnings per common share applicable to common shareholders
Basic
Continuing operations $ (5.22) $ 17.23 $ 17.06
Discontinued operations — (12.19) 0.47
Total $ (5.22) $ 5.04 $ 17.53
Diluted
Continuing operations $ (5.22) $ 16.98 $ 16.84
Discontinued operations — (12.02) 0.47
Total $ (5.22) $ 4.96 $ 17.31
Weighted average common shares - Basic 271.2 294.8 311.6
Weighted average common shares - Diluted 271.2 299.1 315.5
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
200 2022 Annual Report
201 www.allstate.comFinancial Statements Financial Statements
The Allstate Corporation and Subsidiaries The Allstate Corporation and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) Consolidated Statements of Financial Position
Years Ended December 31, December 31,
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 ($ in millions, except par value data) 2022 2021
Net (loss) income $ (1,364) $ 1,566 $ 5,576 Assets
Investments
Other comprehensive (loss) income, after-tax Fixed income securities, at fair value (amortized cost, net $45,370 and $41,376) $ 42,485 $ 42,136
Changes in: Equity securities, at fair value (cost $4,253 and $6,016) 4,567 7,061
Unrealized net capital gains and losses (2,851) (2,582) 1,293 Mortgage loans, net 762 821
Unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments (150) (8) 52 Limited partnership interests 8,114 8,018
Unamortized pension and other postretirement prior service credit (43) (59) 9 Short-term, at fair value (amortized cost $4,174 and $4,009) 4,173 4,009
Other comprehensive (loss) income, after-tax (3,044) (2,649) 1,354 Other investments, net 1,728 2,656
Total investments 61,829 64,701
Comprehensive (loss) income (4,408) (1,083) 6,930 Cash 736 763
Less: Comprehensive loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (73) (36) — Premium installment receivables, net 9,165 8,364
Comprehensive (loss) income attributable to Allstate $ (4,335) $ (1,047) $ 6,930 Deferred policy acquisition costs 5,418 4,722
Reinsurance and indemnification recoverables, net 9,606 10,024
Accrued investment income 423 339
Deferred income taxes 386 —
Property and equipment, net 987 939
Goodwill 3,502 3,502
Other assets, net 5,905 6,086
Total assets 97,957 99,440
Liabilities
Reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense 37,541 33,060
Reserve for future policy benefits 1,273 1,273
Contractholder funds 897 908
Unearned premiums 22,311 19,844
Claim payments outstanding 1,268 1,123
Deferred income taxes — 833
Other liabilities and accrued expenses 9,353 9,296
Debt 7,964 7,976
Total liabilities 80,607 74,313
Commitments and Contingent Liabilities (Note 7, 9 and 15)
Shareholders’ equity
Preferred stock and additional capital paid-in, $1 par value, 25 million shares authorized,
81.0 thousand shares issued and outstanding, $2,025 aggregate liquidation preference 1,970 1,970
Common stock, $.01 par value, 2.0 billion shares authorized and 900 million issued, 263 million
and 281 million shares outstanding 9 9
Additional capital paid-in 3,788 3,722
Retained income 50,954 53,294
Treasury stock, at cost (637 million and 619 million shares) (36,857) (34,471)
Accumulated other comprehensive income:
Unrealized net capital gains and losses (2,253) 598
Unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments (165) (15)
Unamortized pension and other postretirement prior service credit 29 72
Total accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income (2,389) 655
Total Allstate shareholders’ equity 17,475 25,179
Noncontrolling interest (125) (52)
Total equity 17,350 25,127
Total liabilities and equity $ 97,957 $ 99,440
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
202 2022 Annual Report
203 www.allstate.comFinancial Statements Financial Statements
The Allstate Corporation and Subsidiaries The Allstate Corporation and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) Consolidated Statements of Financial Position
Years Ended December 31, December 31,
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 ($ in millions, except par value data) 2022 2021
Net (loss) income $ (1,364) $ 1,566 $ 5,576 Assets
Investments
Other comprehensive (loss) income, after-tax Fixed income securities, at fair value (amortized cost, net $45,370 and $41,376) $ 42,485 $ 42,136
Changes in: Equity securities, at fair value (cost $4,253 and $6,016) 4,567 7,061
Unrealized net capital gains and losses (2,851) (2,582) 1,293 Mortgage loans, net 762 821
Unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments (150) (8) 52 Limited partnership interests 8,114 8,018
Unamortized pension and other postretirement prior service credit (43) (59) 9 Short-term, at fair value (amortized cost $4,174 and $4,009) 4,173 4,009
Other comprehensive (loss) income, after-tax (3,044) (2,649) 1,354 Other investments, net 1,728 2,656
Total investments 61,829 64,701
Comprehensive (loss) income (4,408) (1,083) 6,930 Cash 736 763
Less: Comprehensive loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (73) (36) — Premium installment receivables, net 9,165 8,364
Comprehensive (loss) income attributable to Allstate $ (4,335) $ (1,047) $ 6,930 Deferred policy acquisition costs 5,418 4,722
Reinsurance and indemnification recoverables, net 9,606 10,024
Accrued investment income 423 339
Deferred income taxes 386 —
Property and equipment, net 987 939
Goodwill 3,502 3,502
Other assets, net 5,905 6,086
Total assets 97,957 99,440
Liabilities
Reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense 37,541 33,060
Reserve for future policy benefits 1,273 1,273
Contractholder funds 897 908
Unearned premiums 22,311 19,844
Claim payments outstanding 1,268 1,123
Deferred income taxes — 833
Other liabilities and accrued expenses 9,353 9,296
Debt 7,964 7,976
Total liabilities 80,607 74,313
Commitments and Contingent Liabilities (Note 7, 9 and 15)
Shareholders’ equity
Preferred stock and additional capital paid-in, $1 par value, 25 million shares authorized,
81.0 thousand shares issued and outstanding, $2,025 aggregate liquidation preference 1,970 1,970
Common stock, $.01 par value, 2.0 billion shares authorized and 900 million issued, 263 million
and 281 million shares outstanding 9 9
Additional capital paid-in 3,788 3,722
Retained income 50,954 53,294
Treasury stock, at cost (637 million and 619 million shares) (36,857) (34,471)
Accumulated other comprehensive income:
Unrealized net capital gains and losses (2,253) 598
Unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments (165) (15)
Unamortized pension and other postretirement prior service credit 29 72
Total accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income (2,389) 655
Total Allstate shareholders’ equity 17,475 25,179
Noncontrolling interest (125) (52)
Total equity 17,350 25,127
Total liabilities and equity $ 97,957 $ 99,440
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
202 2022 Annual Report
203 www.allstate.comFinancial Statements Financial Statements
The Allstate Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
The Allstate Corporation and Subsidiaries
Years Ended December 31,
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Years Ended December 31, Cash flows from operating activities
($ in millions, except per share data) 2022 2021 2020 Net (loss) income $ (1,364) $ 1,566 $ 5,576
Preferred stock par value $ — $ — $ — Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating
activities:
Preferred stock additional capital paid-in
Depreciation, amortization and other non-cash items 847 1,086 686
Balance, beginning of year 1,970 1,970 2,248
Net (gains) losses on investments and derivatives 1,072 (1,279) (1,356)
Acquisition — 450 —
Pension and other postretirement remeasurement (gains) losses 116 (644) (51)
Preferred stock redemption — (450) (278)
Amortization of deferred gain on reinsurance — (4) (4)
Balance, end of year 1,970 1,970 1,970
Loss on disposition of operations, net of tax — 4,031 —
Changes in:
Common stock par value 9 9 9 Accident, health and other policy benefits 4,503 2,432 (44)
Common stock additional capital paid-in Unearned premiums 2,541 1,618 598
Balance, beginning of year 3,722 3,498 3,463 Deferred policy acquisition costs (702) (608) (125)
Forward contract on accelerated share repurchase agreement — 113 (38) Premium installment receivables, net (1,038) (498) (3)
Equity incentive plans activity 66 111 73 Reinsurance recoverables, net 408 (1,565) (11)
Balance, end of year 3,788 3,722 3,498 Income taxes (721) 349 (232)
Other operating assets and liabilities (541) (1,368) 457
Retained income Net cash provided by operating activities 5,121 5,116 5,491
Cash flows from investing activities
Balance, beginning of year 53,294 52,767 48,074
Proceeds from sales
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — — (88)
Fixed income securities 31,494 31,774 31,950
Net (loss) income (1,311) 1,599 5,576
Equity securities 10,969 4,513 8,405
Dividends on common stock (declared per share of $3.40, $3.24 and $2.16) (924) (958) (680)
Limited partnership interests 970 886 1,350
Dividends on preferred stock (105) (114) (115)
Mortgage loans — — 230
Balance, end of year 50,954 53,294 52,767
Other investments 1,071 1,406 340
Investment collections
Treasury stock Fixed income securities 728 2,284 2,235
Balance, beginning of year (34,471) (31,331) (29,746) Mortgage loans 163 860 626
Shares acquired (2,496) (3,262) (1,700) Other investments 167 550 209
Shares reissued under equity incentive plans, net 110 122 115 Investment purchases
Balance, end of year (36,857) (34,471) (31,331) Fixed income securities (36,920) (33,857) (38,121)
Equity securities (9,294) (6,409) (4,648)
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) Limited partnership interests (1,258) (1,766) (1,265)
Balance, beginning of year 655 3,304 1,950 Mortgage loans (104) (221) (203)
Other investments (295) (1,647) (371)
Change in unrealized net capital gains and losses (2,851) (2,582) 1,293
Change in short-term and other investments, net 792 4,017 (3,871)
Change in unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments (150) (8) 52
Purchases of property and equipment, net (420) (345) (308)
Change in unamortized pension and other postretirement prior service credit (43) (59) 9
Proceeds from sale of property and equipment 209 — —
Balance, end of year (2,389) 655 3,304
Acquisition of operations, net of cash acquired — (3,593) 1
Total Allstate shareholders’ equity 17,475 25,179 30,217
Proceeds from disposition of operations, net of cash transferred — 2,058 —
Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (1,728) 510 (3,441)
Noncontrolling interest
Cash flows from financing activities
Balance, beginning of period (52) — — Proceeds from issuance of debt — — 1,189
Acquisition — (16) — Redemption and repayment of debt — (436) —
Change in unrealized net capital gains and losses (20) (3) — Redemption of preferred stock — (450) (288)
Noncontrolling loss (53) (33) — Contractholder fund deposits 133 826 991
Balance, end of period (125) (52) — Contractholder fund withdrawals (49) (1,140) (1,494)
Total equity $ 17,350 $ 25,127 $ 30,217 Dividends paid on common stock (926) (885) (668)
Dividends paid on preferred stock (105) (114) (108)
Treasury stock purchases (2,520) (3,120) (1,737)
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
Shares reissued under equity incentive plans, net 82 114 63
Other (35) (35) 41
Net cash used in financing activities (3,420) (5,240) (2,011)
Net (decrease) increase in cash, including cash classified as assets held for sale (27) 386 39
Cash from continuing operations at beginning of period 763 311 273
Cash classified as assets held for sale at beginning of period — 66 65
Less: Cash classified as assets held for sale at end of period — — 66
Cash from continuing operations at end of period $ 736 $ 763 $ 311
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
204 2022 Annual Report
205 www.allstate.comFinancial Statements Financial Statements
The Allstate Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
The Allstate Corporation and Subsidiaries
Years Ended December 31,
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Years Ended December 31, Cash flows from operating activities
($ in millions, except per share data) 2022 2021 2020 Net (loss) income $ (1,364) $ 1,566 $ 5,576
Preferred stock par value $ — $ — $ — Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating
activities:
Preferred stock additional capital paid-in
Depreciation, amortization and other non-cash items 847 1,086 686
Balance, beginning of year 1,970 1,970 2,248
Net (gains) losses on investments and derivatives 1,072 (1,279) (1,356)
Acquisition — 450 —
Pension and other postretirement remeasurement (gains) losses 116 (644) (51)
Preferred stock redemption — (450) (278)
Amortization of deferred gain on reinsurance — (4) (4)
Balance, end of year 1,970 1,970 1,970
Loss on disposition of operations, net of tax — 4,031 —
Changes in:
Common stock par value 9 9 9 Accident, health and other policy benefits 4,503 2,432 (44)
Common stock additional capital paid-in Unearned premiums 2,541 1,618 598
Balance, beginning of year 3,722 3,498 3,463 Deferred policy acquisition costs (702) (608) (125)
Forward contract on accelerated share repurchase agreement — 113 (38) Premium installment receivables, net (1,038) (498) (3)
Equity incentive plans activity 66 111 73 Reinsurance recoverables, net 408 (1,565) (11)
Balance, end of year 3,788 3,722 3,498 Income taxes (721) 349 (232)
Other operating assets and liabilities (541) (1,368) 457
Retained income Net cash provided by operating activities 5,121 5,116 5,491
Cash flows from investing activities
Balance, beginning of year 53,294 52,767 48,074
Proceeds from sales
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — — (88)
Fixed income securities 31,494 31,774 31,950
Net (loss) income (1,311) 1,599 5,576
Equity securities 10,969 4,513 8,405
Dividends on common stock (declared per share of $3.40, $3.24 and $2.16) (924) (958) (680)
Limited partnership interests 970 886 1,350
Dividends on preferred stock (105) (114) (115)
Mortgage loans — — 230
Balance, end of year 50,954 53,294 52,767
Other investments 1,071 1,406 340
Investment collections
Treasury stock Fixed income securities 728 2,284 2,235
Balance, beginning of year (34,471) (31,331) (29,746) Mortgage loans 163 860 626
Shares acquired (2,496) (3,262) (1,700) Other investments 167 550 209
Shares reissued under equity incentive plans, net 110 122 115 Investment purchases
Balance, end of year (36,857) (34,471) (31,331) Fixed income securities (36,920) (33,857) (38,121)
Equity securities (9,294) (6,409) (4,648)
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) Limited partnership interests (1,258) (1,766) (1,265)
Balance, beginning of year 655 3,304 1,950 Mortgage loans (104) (221) (203)
Other investments (295) (1,647) (371)
Change in unrealized net capital gains and losses (2,851) (2,582) 1,293
Change in short-term and other investments, net 792 4,017 (3,871)
Change in unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments (150) (8) 52
Purchases of property and equipment, net (420) (345) (308)
Change in unamortized pension and other postretirement prior service credit (43) (59) 9
Proceeds from sale of property and equipment 209 — —
Balance, end of year (2,389) 655 3,304
Acquisition of operations, net of cash acquired — (3,593) 1
Total Allstate shareholders’ equity 17,475 25,179 30,217
Proceeds from disposition of operations, net of cash transferred — 2,058 —
Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (1,728) 510 (3,441)
Noncontrolling interest
Cash flows from financing activities
Balance, beginning of period (52) — — Proceeds from issuance of debt — — 1,189
Acquisition — (16) — Redemption and repayment of debt — (436) —
Change in unrealized net capital gains and losses (20) (3) — Redemption of preferred stock — (450) (288)
Noncontrolling loss (53) (33) — Contractholder fund deposits 133 826 991
Balance, end of period (125) (52) — Contractholder fund withdrawals (49) (1,140) (1,494)
Total equity $ 17,350 $ 25,127 $ 30,217 Dividends paid on common stock (926) (885) (668)
Dividends paid on preferred stock (105) (114) (108)
Treasury stock purchases (2,520) (3,120) (1,737)
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
Shares reissued under equity incentive plans, net 82 114 63
Other (35) (35) 41
Net cash used in financing activities (3,420) (5,240) (2,011)
Net (decrease) increase in cash, including cash classified as assets held for sale (27) 386 39
Cash from continuing operations at beginning of period 763 311 273
Cash classified as assets held for sale at beginning of period — 66 65
Less: Cash classified as assets held for sale at end of period — — 66
Cash from continuing operations at end of period $ 736 $ 763 $ 311
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
204 2022 Annual Report
205 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Certain growth and profitability comparisons to the • Supply chain disruptions and labor shortages
prior year were impacted, in part, by the effects the impacts on the cost of settling claims
Coronavirus had on prior year results. Throughout 2021 • Premium for transportation network products
Note 1 General the Company experienced lower auto accident claim
• Driving behavior and auto accident frequency
frequency and different claim patterns than historically
experienced. Total auto claim frequency has since • Hospital and outpatient claim costs
Basis of presentation Risks and uncertainties
increased, but remains below pre-pandemic levels. • Investment valuations and returns
The accompanying consolidated financial Allstate has exposure to catastrophic events,
The Coronavirus has affected operations and may • Bad debt and credit allowance exposure
statements include the accounts of The Allstate including wind/hail, wildfires, tornadoes, hurricanes,
Corporation (the “Corporation”) and its wholly owned tropical storms, earthquakes, severe freeze events, continue to significantly affect results of operations, • Consumer utilization of Milewise®, the Company’s
subsidiaries, primarily Allstate Insurance Company volcanic eruptions, terrorism and industrial accidents. financial condition and liquidity. The impact from the pay-per-mile insurance product
pandemic should be considered when comparing the
(“AIC”), a property and casualty insurance company • Retail sales in Allstate Protection Plans
Catastrophes, an inherent risk of the property and current year to the prior years, including:
(collectively referred to as the “Company” or “Allstate”)
casualty insurance business, have contributed, and will This list is not inclusive of all potential impacts and should
and variable interest entities (“VIEs”) in which the • Sales of new and retention of existing policies
continue to contribute, to material year-to-year not be treated as such.
Company is considered a primary beneficiary. These
fluctuations in the Company’s results of operations and • Rate changes and average gross premiums
consolidated financial statements have been prepared
financial position (see Note 9). The nature and level of
in conformity with accounting principles generally Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
catastrophic loss experienced in any period cannot be
accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). All
predicted and could be material to results of
significant intercompany accounts and transactions Investments method of accounting (“EMA”) and include interests in
operations and financial position.
have been eliminated. Certain amounts have been private equity funds, real estate funds and other funds.
Fixed income securities include bonds and asset-
reclassified to conform to current year presentation. The Company considers the following categories Investments in limited partnership interests purchased
backed securities (“ABS”). Fixed income securities,
and locations to be the greatest areas of potential prior to January 1, 2018, where the Company’s interest
The preparation of financial statements in which may be sold prior to their contractual maturity,
catastrophe losses: is so minor that it exercises virtually no influence over
conformity with GAAP requires management to make are designated as available-for-sale (“AFS”) and are
operating and financial policies, are accounted for at
estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts • Wildfires — California, Colorado, Oregon, Texas carried at fair value. The difference between amortized
fair value primarily utilizing the net asset value (“NAV”)
reported in the consolidated financial statements and and Arizona cost, net of credit loss allowances (“amortized cost,
as a practical expedient to determine fair value.
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from net”) and fair value, net of deferred income taxes, is
• Hurricanes — Major metropolitan centers in
those estimates. reflected as a component of accumulated other Short-term investments, including money market
counties along the eastern and gulf coasts of the
comprehensive income (“AOCI”). The Company funds, commercial paper, U.S. Treasury bills and other
Nature of operations United States
excludes accrued interest receivable from the short-term investments, are carried at fair value. Other
Allstate is engaged, principally in the United • Wind/Hail, Rain and Tornado — Texas, Illinois, amortized cost basis of its AFS fixed income securities. investments primarily consist of bank loans, policy
States, in the property and casualty insurance Georgia and Colorado Cash received from calls and make-whole payments is loans, real estate and derivatives. Bank loans are
business. Allstate is one of the country’s largest reflected as a component of proceeds from sales and primarily senior secured corporate loans. Policy loans
• Earthquakes and fires following earthquakes —
personal property and casualty insurers and is cash received from maturities and pay-downs is are carried at unpaid principal balances. Real estate is
Major metropolitan areas near fault lines in the
organized into five reportable segments: Allstate reflected as a component of investment collections carried at cost less accumulated depreciation.
states of California, Oregon, Washington, South
Protection, Run-off Property Liability, Protection within the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Derivatives are carried at fair value.
Carolina and Kentucky
Services, Allstate Health and Benefits, and Corporate
Equity securities primarily include common stocks, Investment income primarily consists of interest,
and Other. The Novel Coronavirus Pandemic or COVID-19
exchange traded and mutual funds, non-redeemable dividends, income from limited partnership interests,
(“Coronavirus”)
Allstate’s primary business is the sale of private preferred stocks and real estate investment trust rental income from real estate, and income from
passenger auto and homeowners insurance. The The Novel Coronavirus Pandemic or COVID-19 equity investments. Certain exchange traded and certain derivative transactions.
Company also offers several other personal property (“Coronavirus”) resulted in governments worldwide mutual funds have fixed income securities as their
Interest is recognized on an accrual basis using the
and casualty insurance products, select commercial enacting emergency measures to combat the spread underlying investments. Equity securities are carried at
effective yield method and dividends are recorded at
property and casualty coverages, consumer product of the virus, including travel restrictions, government- fair value. Equity securities without readily
the ex-dividend date. Interest income for ABS is
protection plans, device and mobile data collection imposed shelter-in-place orders, quarantine periods, determinable or estimable fair values are measured
determined considering estimated pay-downs,
services and analytic solutions using automotive social distancing, and restrictions on large gatherings. using the measurement alternative, which is cost less
including prepayments, obtained from third-party data
telematics information, roadside assistance, finance These measures have moderated significantly, but new impairment, if any, and adjustments resulting from
sources and internal estimates. Actual prepayment
and insurance products, employer voluntary benefits variants of the Coronavirus could result in further observable price changes in orderly transactions for
experience is periodically reviewed, and effective yields
and group accident and health insurance and identity economic volatility. The Company continues to closely the identical or similar investment of the same issuer.
are recalculated when differences arise between the
protection. Allstate primarily distributes its products monitor and proactively adapt to developments and
Mortgage loans and bank loans are carried at prepayments originally anticipated and the actual
through exclusive agents, financial specialists, changing conditions. Currently, it is not possible to
amortized cost, net, which represent the amount prepayments received and currently anticipated. For
independent agents and brokers, major retailers, reliably estimate the continuing impact to the
expected to be collected. The Company excludes ABS of high credit quality with fixed interest rates, the
contact centers and the internet. Company’s operations, but the effects have been and
accrued interest receivable from the amortized cost effective yield is recalculated on a retrospective basis.
could be material.
basis of its mortgage and bank loans. Credit loss For all others, the effective yield is generally
allowances are estimates of expected credit losses, recalculated on a prospective basis. Net investment
established for loans upon origination or purchase, and income for AFS fixed income securities includes the
are established considering all relevant information impact of accreting the credit loss allowance for the
available, including past events, current conditions, time value of money. Accrual of income is suspended
and reasonable and supportable forecasts over the life for fixed income securities when the timing and
of the loans. Loans are evaluated on a pooled basis amount of cash flows expected to be received is not
when they share similar risk characteristics; otherwise, probable. Accrual of income is suspended for
they are evaluated individually. mortgage loans and bank loans that are in default or
when full and timely collection of principal and interest
Investments in limited partnership interests are
payments is not probable. Accrued income receivable
primarily accounted for in accordance with the equity
is monitored for recoverability, and when not expected
206 2022 Annual Report 207 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Certain growth and profitability comparisons to the • Supply chain disruptions and labor shortages
prior year were impacted, in part, by the effects the impacts on the cost of settling claims
Coronavirus had on prior year results. Throughout 2021 • Premium for transportation network products
Note 1 General the Company experienced lower auto accident claim
• Driving behavior and auto accident frequency
frequency and different claim patterns than historically
experienced. Total auto claim frequency has since • Hospital and outpatient claim costs
Basis of presentation Risks and uncertainties
increased, but remains below pre-pandemic levels. • Investment valuations and returns
The accompanying consolidated financial Allstate has exposure to catastrophic events,
The Coronavirus has affected operations and may • Bad debt and credit allowance exposure
statements include the accounts of The Allstate including wind/hail, wildfires, tornadoes, hurricanes,
Corporation (the “Corporation”) and its wholly owned tropical storms, earthquakes, severe freeze events, continue to significantly affect results of operations, • Consumer utilization of Milewise®, the Company’s
subsidiaries, primarily Allstate Insurance Company volcanic eruptions, terrorism and industrial accidents. financial condition and liquidity. The impact from the pay-per-mile insurance product
pandemic should be considered when comparing the
(“AIC”), a property and casualty insurance company • Retail sales in Allstate Protection Plans
Catastrophes, an inherent risk of the property and current year to the prior years, including:
(collectively referred to as the “Company” or “Allstate”)
casualty insurance business, have contributed, and will This list is not inclusive of all potential impacts and should
and variable interest entities (“VIEs”) in which the • Sales of new and retention of existing policies
continue to contribute, to material year-to-year not be treated as such.
Company is considered a primary beneficiary. These
fluctuations in the Company’s results of operations and • Rate changes and average gross premiums
consolidated financial statements have been prepared
financial position (see Note 9). The nature and level of
in conformity with accounting principles generally Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
catastrophic loss experienced in any period cannot be
accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). All
predicted and could be material to results of
significant intercompany accounts and transactions Investments method of accounting (“EMA”) and include interests in
operations and financial position.
have been eliminated. Certain amounts have been private equity funds, real estate funds and other funds.
Fixed income securities include bonds and asset-
reclassified to conform to current year presentation. The Company considers the following categories Investments in limited partnership interests purchased
backed securities (“ABS”). Fixed income securities,
and locations to be the greatest areas of potential prior to January 1, 2018, where the Company’s interest
The preparation of financial statements in which may be sold prior to their contractual maturity,
catastrophe losses: is so minor that it exercises virtually no influence over
conformity with GAAP requires management to make are designated as available-for-sale (“AFS”) and are
operating and financial policies, are accounted for at
estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts • Wildfires — California, Colorado, Oregon, Texas carried at fair value. The difference between amortized
fair value primarily utilizing the net asset value (“NAV”)
reported in the consolidated financial statements and and Arizona cost, net of credit loss allowances (“amortized cost,
as a practical expedient to determine fair value.
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from net”) and fair value, net of deferred income taxes, is
• Hurricanes — Major metropolitan centers in
those estimates. reflected as a component of accumulated other Short-term investments, including money market
counties along the eastern and gulf coasts of the
comprehensive income (“AOCI”). The Company funds, commercial paper, U.S. Treasury bills and other
Nature of operations United States
excludes accrued interest receivable from the short-term investments, are carried at fair value. Other
Allstate is engaged, principally in the United • Wind/Hail, Rain and Tornado — Texas, Illinois, amortized cost basis of its AFS fixed income securities. investments primarily consist of bank loans, policy
States, in the property and casualty insurance Georgia and Colorado Cash received from calls and make-whole payments is loans, real estate and derivatives. Bank loans are
business. Allstate is one of the country’s largest reflected as a component of proceeds from sales and primarily senior secured corporate loans. Policy loans
• Earthquakes and fires following earthquakes —
personal property and casualty insurers and is cash received from maturities and pay-downs is are carried at unpaid principal balances. Real estate is
Major metropolitan areas near fault lines in the
organized into five reportable segments: Allstate reflected as a component of investment collections carried at cost less accumulated depreciation.
states of California, Oregon, Washington, South
Protection, Run-off Property Liability, Protection within the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Derivatives are carried at fair value.
Carolina and Kentucky
Services, Allstate Health and Benefits, and Corporate
Equity securities primarily include common stocks, Investment income primarily consists of interest,
and Other. The Novel Coronavirus Pandemic or COVID-19
exchange traded and mutual funds, non-redeemable dividends, income from limited partnership interests,
(“Coronavirus”)
Allstate’s primary business is the sale of private preferred stocks and real estate investment trust rental income from real estate, and income from
passenger auto and homeowners insurance. The The Novel Coronavirus Pandemic or COVID-19 equity investments. Certain exchange traded and certain derivative transactions.
Company also offers several other personal property (“Coronavirus”) resulted in governments worldwide mutual funds have fixed income securities as their
Interest is recognized on an accrual basis using the
and casualty insurance products, select commercial enacting emergency measures to combat the spread underlying investments. Equity securities are carried at
effective yield method and dividends are recorded at
property and casualty coverages, consumer product of the virus, including travel restrictions, government- fair value. Equity securities without readily
the ex-dividend date. Interest income for ABS is
protection plans, device and mobile data collection imposed shelter-in-place orders, quarantine periods, determinable or estimable fair values are measured
determined considering estimated pay-downs,
services and analytic solutions using automotive social distancing, and restrictions on large gatherings. using the measurement alternative, which is cost less
including prepayments, obtained from third-party data
telematics information, roadside assistance, finance These measures have moderated significantly, but new impairment, if any, and adjustments resulting from
sources and internal estimates. Actual prepayment
and insurance products, employer voluntary benefits variants of the Coronavirus could result in further observable price changes in orderly transactions for
experience is periodically reviewed, and effective yields
and group accident and health insurance and identity economic volatility. The Company continues to closely the identical or similar investment of the same issuer.
are recalculated when differences arise between the
protection. Allstate primarily distributes its products monitor and proactively adapt to developments and
Mortgage loans and bank loans are carried at prepayments originally anticipated and the actual
through exclusive agents, financial specialists, changing conditions. Currently, it is not possible to
amortized cost, net, which represent the amount prepayments received and currently anticipated. For
independent agents and brokers, major retailers, reliably estimate the continuing impact to the
expected to be collected. The Company excludes ABS of high credit quality with fixed interest rates, the
contact centers and the internet. Company’s operations, but the effects have been and
accrued interest receivable from the amortized cost effective yield is recalculated on a retrospective basis.
could be material.
basis of its mortgage and bank loans. Credit loss For all others, the effective yield is generally
allowances are estimates of expected credit losses, recalculated on a prospective basis. Net investment
established for loans upon origination or purchase, and income for AFS fixed income securities includes the
are established considering all relevant information impact of accreting the credit loss allowance for the
available, including past events, current conditions, time value of money. Accrual of income is suspended
and reasonable and supportable forecasts over the life for fixed income securities when the timing and
of the loans. Loans are evaluated on a pooled basis amount of cash flows expected to be received is not
when they share similar risk characteristics; otherwise, probable. Accrual of income is suspended for
they are evaluated individually. mortgage loans and bank loans that are in default or
when full and timely collection of principal and interest
Investments in limited partnership interests are
payments is not probable. Accrued income receivable
primarily accounted for in accordance with the equity
is monitored for recoverability, and when not expected
206 2022 Annual Report 207 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
to be collected, is written off through net investment The Company receives cash collateral for securities Premium installment receivables represent including aging analyses to estimate allowances under
income. Cash receipts on investments on nonaccrual loaned in an amount generally equal to 102% and 105% premiums written and not yet collected, net of the current conditions and for the forecast period. The
status are generally recorded as a reduction of of the fair value of domestic and foreign securities, credit loss allowance for uncollectible premiums. These Company regularly evaluates and updates the data
amortized cost. respectively, and records the related obligations to receivables are primarily outstanding for one year or and adjusts its allowance as appropriate.
return the collateral in other liabilities and accrued less. The Company utilizes historical internal data
Income from limited partnership interests carried
expenses. The carrying value of these obligations
at fair value is recognized based upon the changes in Rollforward of credit loss allowance for premium installment receivables
approximates fair value because of their relatively
fair value of the investee’s equity primarily determined
short-term nature. The Company monitors the market For the years ended December 31,
using NAV. Income from EMA limited partnership
value of securities loaned on a daily basis and obtains ($ in millions) 2022 2021
interests is recognized based on the Company’s share
additional collateral as necessary under the terms of Beginning balance $ (107) $ (153)
of the partnerships’ earnings. Income from EMA limited
the agreements to mitigate counterparty credit risk. Increase in the provision for credit losses (313) (293)
partnership interests is generally recognized on a three
The Company maintains the right and ability to
month delay due to the availability of the related Write-off of uncollectible premium installment receivable amounts 288 339
repossess the securities loaned on short notice.
financial statements from investees. Ending balance $ (132) $ (107)
Recognition of premium revenues and contract
Net gains and losses on investments and charges, and related benefits and interest credited Voluntary accident and health insurance products Company recognizes Medicare-related and other
derivatives include gains and losses on investment are expected to remain in force for an extended period accident and health commission revenues equal to the
sales, changes in the credit loss allowances related to Property and casualty insurance premiums include and therefore are primarily classified as long-duration estimated life-time value of the revenues at the time
fixed income securities, mortgage loans and bank premiums from personal lines policies, protection contracts. Traditional life insurance products consist when the policy is sold, net of an allowance for
loans, impairments, valuation changes of equity plans, other contracts (primarily finance and insurance principally of products with fixed and guaranteed estimated policy cancellations, as no further
investments, including equity securities and certain products) and roadside assistance. premiums and benefits, primarily term and whole life performance obligations exist. The allowance for
limited partnerships where the underlying assets are insurance products. Premiums from these products are estimated third-party cancellations is periodically
Personal lines insurance premiums are deferred
predominately public equity securities, and periodic recognized as revenue when due from policyholders, evaluated and adjusted as necessary.
and earned on a pro-rata basis over the terms of the
changes in fair value and settlements of certain net of any credit loss allowance for uncollectible
derivatives, including hedge ineffectiveness. Net gains policies, typically periods of six or twelve months. premiums. Benefits are reflected in accident, health Deferred policy acquisition costs
and losses on sales of investments and derivatives are Revenues related to protection plans, other and other policy benefits and recognized over the life Costs that are related directly to the successful
determined on a specific identification basis and are contracts (primarily finance and insurance products) of the policy in relation to premiums. acquisition of new or renewal policies or contracts are
net of credit losses already recognized through an and roadside assistance are deferred and earned over deferred and recorded as deferred policy acquisition
allowance. the term of the contract in a manner that recognizes Interest-sensitive life contracts, such as universal costs (“DAC”). These costs are principally agent and
life, are insurance contracts whose terms are not fixed
Derivative and embedded derivative financial revenue as obligations under the contracts are fulfilled. and guaranteed. The terms that may be changed broker remuneration, premium taxes and certain
instruments Revenues from these products are classified as include premiums paid by the contractholder, interest underwriting expenses. All other acquisition costs are
premiums as the products are backed by insurance. expensed as incurred and included in operating costs
credited to the contractholder account balance and
Derivative financial instruments include interest Protection plans and finance and insurance premiums and expenses.
contract charges assessed against the contractholder
rate swaps, credit default swaps, futures (interest rate are recognized using a cost-based incurrence method
and equity), options (including swaptions), warrants over the term of the contracts, which is generally one account balance. Premiums from these contracts are For property and casualty insurance, DAC is
and stock rights, foreign currency forwards and total to five years. Roadside assistance premiums are reported as contractholder fund deposits. Contract amortized into income as premiums are earned,
return swaps. recognized evenly over the term of the contract as charges consist of fees assessed against the typically over periods of six or twelve months for
performance obligations are fulfilled. contractholder account balance for the cost of personal lines policies or generally one to five years for
All derivatives are accounted for on a fair value insurance (mortality risk), contract administration and protection plans and other contracts (primarily related
basis and reported as other investments, other assets The portion of premiums written applicable to the surrender of the contract prior to contractually to finance and insurance products), and is included in
and other liabilities and accrued expenses. Embedded unexpired terms of the policies is recorded as specified dates. These contract charges are recognized amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. DAC
derivative instruments subject to bifurcation are also unearned premiums. as revenue when assessed against the contractholder associated with property and casualty insurance is
accounted for on a fair value basis and are reported account balance. Benefit payments in excess of the periodically reviewed for recoverability and adjusted if
Unearned premiums
together with the host contract. Cash flows from other contractholder account balance are reflected in necessary. Future investment income is considered in
derivatives are reported in cash flows from investing December 31, accident, health and other policy benefits. determining the recoverability of DAC.
activities within the Consolidated Statements of Cash ($ in millions) 2022 2021
Flows. Allstate Protection $ 17,538 $ 15,762 Interest credited to contractholder funds, which For voluntary accident and health insurance and
are reported in accident, health and other policy traditional life, DAC is amortized over the premium
Protection Services 4,745 4,054
For derivatives for which hedge accounting is not benefits, represents interest accrued or paid on paying period of the related policies in proportion to
Total $ 22,283 $ 19,816
applied, the income statement effects, including fair interest-sensitive life contracts. Crediting rates for the estimated revenues on such business.
value gains and losses and accrued periodic interest-sensitive life contracts are adjusted
settlements, are reported either in net gains and losses Protection Services For the year ended December periodically by the Company to reflect current market Assumptions used in the amortization of DAC and
on investments and derivatives or in a single line item 31, 2022, the Company recognized $1.46 billion of conditions subject to contractually guaranteed reserve calculations are established at the time the
together with the results of the associated asset or property and casualty insurance premiums for minimum rates. policy is issued and are generally not revised during
liability for which risks are being managed. Protection Services that were included in the unearned the life of the policy. Any deviations from projected
premium balance as of December 31, 2021. Other revenue business in force resulting from actual policy
Securities loaned terminations differing from expected levels and any
For the year ended December 31, 2021, the Other revenue represents fees collected from
estimated premium deficiencies may result in a change
The Company’s business activities include Company recognized $1.28 billion of property and policyholders relating to premium installment
to the rate of amortization in the period such events
securities lending transactions, which are used casualty insurance premiums for Protection Services payments, commissions on sales of non-proprietary
occur. Generally, the amortization periods for these
primarily to generate net investment income. The that were included in the unearned premium balance products, sales of identity protection services, fee-
policies approximates the estimated lives of the
proceeds received in conjunction with securities as of December 31, 2020. based services and other revenue transactions. Other
policies. The Company periodically reviews the
lending transactions can be reinvested in short-term revenue is recognized when performance obligations
The Company expects to recognize approximately recoverability of DAC using actual experience and
investments or fixed income securities. These are fulfilled.
$1.64 billion, $1.31 billion and $1.79 billion of the current assumptions. Voluntary accident and health
transactions are short-term in nature, usually 30 days
December 31, 2022 unearned premium balance in The Company collects service fees in the form of insurance products and traditional life insurance
or less.
2023, 2024 and thereafter, respectively. commission and general agent fees by selling policies products are reviewed individually. If actual experience
issued by third-party insurance companies. The and current assumptions are adverse compared to the
208 2022 Annual Report 209 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
to be collected, is written off through net investment The Company receives cash collateral for securities Premium installment receivables represent including aging analyses to estimate allowances under
income. Cash receipts on investments on nonaccrual loaned in an amount generally equal to 102% and 105% premiums written and not yet collected, net of the current conditions and for the forecast period. The
status are generally recorded as a reduction of of the fair value of domestic and foreign securities, credit loss allowance for uncollectible premiums. These Company regularly evaluates and updates the data
amortized cost. respectively, and records the related obligations to receivables are primarily outstanding for one year or and adjusts its allowance as appropriate.
return the collateral in other liabilities and accrued less. The Company utilizes historical internal data
Income from limited partnership interests carried
expenses. The carrying value of these obligations
at fair value is recognized based upon the changes in Rollforward of credit loss allowance for premium installment receivables
approximates fair value because of their relatively
fair value of the investee’s equity primarily determined
short-term nature. The Company monitors the market For the years ended December 31,
using NAV. Income from EMA limited partnership
value of securities loaned on a daily basis and obtains ($ in millions) 2022 2021
interests is recognized based on the Company’s share
additional collateral as necessary under the terms of Beginning balance $ (107) $ (153)
of the partnerships’ earnings. Income from EMA limited
the agreements to mitigate counterparty credit risk. Increase in the provision for credit losses (313) (293)
partnership interests is generally recognized on a three
The Company maintains the right and ability to
month delay due to the availability of the related Write-off of uncollectible premium installment receivable amounts 288 339
repossess the securities loaned on short notice.
financial statements from investees. Ending balance $ (132) $ (107)
Recognition of premium revenues and contract
Net gains and losses on investments and charges, and related benefits and interest credited Voluntary accident and health insurance products Company recognizes Medicare-related and other
derivatives include gains and losses on investment are expected to remain in force for an extended period accident and health commission revenues equal to the
sales, changes in the credit loss allowances related to Property and casualty insurance premiums include and therefore are primarily classified as long-duration estimated life-time value of the revenues at the time
fixed income securities, mortgage loans and bank premiums from personal lines policies, protection contracts. Traditional life insurance products consist when the policy is sold, net of an allowance for
loans, impairments, valuation changes of equity plans, other contracts (primarily finance and insurance principally of products with fixed and guaranteed estimated policy cancellations, as no further
investments, including equity securities and certain products) and roadside assistance. premiums and benefits, primarily term and whole life performance obligations exist. The allowance for
limited partnerships where the underlying assets are insurance products. Premiums from these products are estimated third-party cancellations is periodically
Personal lines insurance premiums are deferred
predominately public equity securities, and periodic recognized as revenue when due from policyholders, evaluated and adjusted as necessary.
and earned on a pro-rata basis over the terms of the
changes in fair value and settlements of certain net of any credit loss allowance for uncollectible
derivatives, including hedge ineffectiveness. Net gains policies, typically periods of six or twelve months. premiums. Benefits are reflected in accident, health Deferred policy acquisition costs
and losses on sales of investments and derivatives are Revenues related to protection plans, other and other policy benefits and recognized over the life Costs that are related directly to the successful
determined on a specific identification basis and are contracts (primarily finance and insurance products) of the policy in relation to premiums. acquisition of new or renewal policies or contracts are
net of credit losses already recognized through an and roadside assistance are deferred and earned over deferred and recorded as deferred policy acquisition
allowance. the term of the contract in a manner that recognizes Interest-sensitive life contracts, such as universal costs (“DAC”). These costs are principally agent and
life, are insurance contracts whose terms are not fixed
Derivative and embedded derivative financial revenue as obligations under the contracts are fulfilled. and guaranteed. The terms that may be changed broker remuneration, premium taxes and certain
instruments Revenues from these products are classified as include premiums paid by the contractholder, interest underwriting expenses. All other acquisition costs are
premiums as the products are backed by insurance. expensed as incurred and included in operating costs
credited to the contractholder account balance and
Derivative financial instruments include interest Protection plans and finance and insurance premiums and expenses.
contract charges assessed against the contractholder
rate swaps, credit default swaps, futures (interest rate are recognized using a cost-based incurrence method
and equity), options (including swaptions), warrants over the term of the contracts, which is generally one account balance. Premiums from these contracts are For property and casualty insurance, DAC is
and stock rights, foreign currency forwards and total to five years. Roadside assistance premiums are reported as contractholder fund deposits. Contract amortized into income as premiums are earned,
return swaps. recognized evenly over the term of the contract as charges consist of fees assessed against the typically over periods of six or twelve months for
performance obligations are fulfilled. contractholder account balance for the cost of personal lines policies or generally one to five years for
All derivatives are accounted for on a fair value insurance (mortality risk), contract administration and protection plans and other contracts (primarily related
basis and reported as other investments, other assets The portion of premiums written applicable to the surrender of the contract prior to contractually to finance and insurance products), and is included in
and other liabilities and accrued expenses. Embedded unexpired terms of the policies is recorded as specified dates. These contract charges are recognized amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. DAC
derivative instruments subject to bifurcation are also unearned premiums. as revenue when assessed against the contractholder associated with property and casualty insurance is
accounted for on a fair value basis and are reported account balance. Benefit payments in excess of the periodically reviewed for recoverability and adjusted if
Unearned premiums
together with the host contract. Cash flows from other contractholder account balance are reflected in necessary. Future investment income is considered in
derivatives are reported in cash flows from investing December 31, accident, health and other policy benefits. determining the recoverability of DAC.
activities within the Consolidated Statements of Cash ($ in millions) 2022 2021
Flows. Allstate Protection $ 17,538 $ 15,762 Interest credited to contractholder funds, which For voluntary accident and health insurance and
are reported in accident, health and other policy traditional life, DAC is amortized over the premium
Protection Services 4,745 4,054
For derivatives for which hedge accounting is not benefits, represents interest accrued or paid on paying period of the related policies in proportion to
Total $ 22,283 $ 19,816
applied, the income statement effects, including fair interest-sensitive life contracts. Crediting rates for the estimated revenues on such business.
value gains and losses and accrued periodic interest-sensitive life contracts are adjusted
settlements, are reported either in net gains and losses Protection Services For the year ended December periodically by the Company to reflect current market Assumptions used in the amortization of DAC and
on investments and derivatives or in a single line item 31, 2022, the Company recognized $1.46 billion of conditions subject to contractually guaranteed reserve calculations are established at the time the
together with the results of the associated asset or property and casualty insurance premiums for minimum rates. policy is issued and are generally not revised during
liability for which risks are being managed. Protection Services that were included in the unearned the life of the policy. Any deviations from projected
premium balance as of December 31, 2021. Other revenue business in force resulting from actual policy
Securities loaned terminations differing from expected levels and any
For the year ended December 31, 2021, the Other revenue represents fees collected from
estimated premium deficiencies may result in a change
The Company’s business activities include Company recognized $1.28 billion of property and policyholders relating to premium installment
to the rate of amortization in the period such events
securities lending transactions, which are used casualty insurance premiums for Protection Services payments, commissions on sales of non-proprietary
occur. Generally, the amortization periods for these
primarily to generate net investment income. The that were included in the unearned premium balance products, sales of identity protection services, fee-
policies approximates the estimated lives of the
proceeds received in conjunction with securities as of December 31, 2020. based services and other revenue transactions. Other
policies. The Company periodically reviews the
lending transactions can be reinvested in short-term revenue is recognized when performance obligations
The Company expects to recognize approximately recoverability of DAC using actual experience and
investments or fixed income securities. These are fulfilled.
$1.64 billion, $1.31 billion and $1.79 billion of the current assumptions. Voluntary accident and health
transactions are short-term in nature, usually 30 days
December 31, 2022 unearned premium balance in The Company collects service fees in the form of insurance products and traditional life insurance
or less.
2023, 2024 and thereafter, respectively. commission and general agent fees by selling policies products are reviewed individually. If actual experience
issued by third-party insurance companies. The and current assumptions are adverse compared to the
208 2022 Annual Report 209 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
original assumptions and a premium deficiency is lives of the acquired business and are periodically The changes in the allowances are reported in whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as
determined to exist, any remaining unamortized DAC evaluated for recoverability. The present value of property and casualty insurance claims and claims deteriorating or adverse market conditions, indicate
balance would be expensed to the extent not future profits was $13 million and $24 million as of expense and accident, health and other policy benefits. that it is more likely than not that the carrying amount
recoverable and the establishment of a premium December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. of the reporting unit including goodwill may exceed the
Indemnification The Company also participates in
deficiency reserve may be required for any remaining Amortization expense of the present value of future fair value of the reporting unit. The goodwill
various indemnification mechanisms, including industry
deficiency. profits was $11 million, $323 million and $14 million in impairment analysis is performed at the reporting unit
pools and facilities, which are reimbursement
2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. level.
For interest-sensitive life insurance, DAC is mechanisms that assess participating insurers for
amortized in proportion to the incidence of the total Reinsurance and Indemnification expected insured claims, reimburse participating As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the fair value of
present value of gross profits expected to be earned insurers for qualifying paid claims and permit the Company’s goodwill reporting units exceeded their
Reinsurance In the normal course of business, the
over the estimated lives of the contracts. participating insurers to recoup amounts assessed carrying values.
Company seeks to limit aggregate and single exposure
directly from insureds. Indemnification recoverables
Gross profits primarily consist of the following to losses on large risks by purchasing reinsurance. The Intangible assets
are backed by the financial resources of the property
components: contract charges for the cost of Company has also used reinsurance to affect the
and casualty insurance company market participants. Intangible assets (reported in other assets) consist
insurance less mortality costs and other benefits; disposition of certain blocks of business. Reinsurance
of capitalized costs primarily related to acquired
investment income and net gains and losses on does not extinguish the Company’s primary liability The amounts reported as indemnification
distribution and customer relationships, trade names
investments less interest credited; and surrender and under the policies written. Therefore, in addition to recoverables include amounts paid and due from
and licenses, technology and other assets. The
other contract charges less maintenance expenses. establishing allowances as appropriate after evaluating indemnitors as well as estimates of amounts expected
estimated useful lives of distribution and customer
The principal assumptions for determining the amount reinsurers’ activities related to claims settlement to be recovered from indemnitors on insurance
relationships, technology and other intangible assets
of gross profits are mortality, persistency, expenses, practices and commutations, the Company evaluates liabilities that have been incurred but not yet paid. The
are generally 10 years, 5 years and 7 years,
investment returns and interest crediting rates to reinsurer counterparty credit risk and records design and function of these indemnification programs
respectively. Intangible assets are carried at cost less
contractholders. reinsurance recoverables net of credit loss allowances. does not result in the retention of insurance or
accumulated amortization.
The Company assesses counterparty credit risk for reinsurance risk by the indemnitee. Based on the
The Company performs quarterly reviews of DAC
individual reinsurers separately when more relevant or Company’s evaluation of these programs on an Intangible assets by type
recoverability for interest-sensitive life using actual
on a pooled basis when shared risk characteristics individual basis, the establishment of credit loss
experience and current assumptions. December 31,
exist. The evaluation considers the credit quality of the allowances is not warranted at this time. The Company
($ in millions) 2022 2021
The DAC balance presented includes adjustments reinsurer and the period over which the recoverable has not experienced any historical credit losses related
to reflect the amount by which the amortization of DAC balances are expected to be collected. The Company to its indemnification programs. The Company Distribution and customer
relationships $ 697 $ 909
would increase or decrease if the unrealized capital considers factors including past events, current continues to monitor these programs to determine
Trade names and licenses 179 206
gains or losses in the respective product investment conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts whether any changes from historical experience have
portfolios were actually realized. The adjustments are in the development of the estimate of credit loss emerged or are expected to emerge or whether there Technology and other 301 305
recorded net of tax in AOCI. DAC and deferred income allowances. have been any changes in the design or administration Total $ 1,177 $ 1,420
taxes determined on unrealized capital gains and of the programs that would require establishment of
Allowances for property and casualty and accident
losses and reported in AOCI recognize the impact on credit loss allowances. Amortization expense is calculated using an
and health reinsurance recoverables are established
shareholders’ equity consistently with the amounts accelerated amortization method. Amortization
primarily through risk-based evaluations. Goodwill
that would be recognized in the income statement on expense on intangible assets was $353 million,
net gains and losses on investments and derivatives. The property and casualty recoverable evaluation Goodwill represents the excess of amounts paid for $376 million and $118 million in 2022, 2021 and 2020,
considers the credit rating of the reinsurer, the period acquiring businesses over the fair value of the net respectively.
Customers of the Company may exchange one
over which the reinsurance recoverable balances are assets acquired, less any impairment of goodwill
insurance policy for another offered by the Company, Amortization expense of intangible assets for the
expected to be recovered and other relevant factors recognized. The Company’s goodwill reporting units
or make modifications to an existing life, accident and next five years and thereafter
including historical experience of reinsurer failures. are equivalent to its reportable segments to which
health or property and casualty contract issued by the ($ in millions)
Reinsurers in liquidation or in default status are goodwill has been assigned: Allstate Protection,
Company. These transactions are identified as internal 2023 $ 313
evaluated individually using the Company’s historical Protection Services, and Allstate Health and Benefits.
replacements for accounting purposes. Internal liquidation recovery assumptions and any other 2024 248
replacement transactions determined to result in relevant information available including the most Goodwill by reporting unit 2025 201
replacement contracts that are substantially recent public information related to the financial December 31, 2026 91
unchanged from the replaced contracts are accounted
condition or liquidation status of the reinsurer. For ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2027 64
for as continuations of the replaced contracts.
accident and health reinsurance recoverables, the Allstate Protection $ 1,563 $ 1,563 Thereafter 88
Unamortized DAC related to the replaced contracts
continue to be deferred and amortized in connection Company uses a probability of default and loss given Protection Services 1,494 1,494 Total amortization $ 1,005
default model developed independently of the Allstate Health and Benefits 445 445
with the replacement contracts. For traditional life,
Company to estimate current expected credit losses.
accident and health and property and casualty Total $ 3,502 $ 3,502 Accumulated amortization of intangible assets was
The accident and health reinsurance recoverable
insurance policies, any changes to unamortized DAC $1.48 billion and $1.13 billion as of December 31, 2022
evaluation utilizes factors including historical industry
that result from replacement contracts are treated as Goodwill is recognized when acquired and and 2021, respectively.
factors based on the probability of liquidation, and
prospective revisions and any costs associated with allocated to reporting units based on which unit is
incorporates current loss given default factors Trade names and licenses are considered to have
the issuance of replacement contracts are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business
reflective of the industry. an indefinite useful life and are reviewed for
characterized as maintenance costs and expensed as combination. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested
impairment at least annually or more frequent if
incurred. The Company monitors the credit ratings of for impairment at least annually. The Company
circumstances arise that indicate an impairment may
reinsurer counterparties and evaluates the performs its annual goodwill impairment testing during
The costs assigned to the right to receive future circumstances surrounding credit rating changes as the fourth quarter of each year based upon data as of have occurred. An impairment is recognized if the
cash flows from certain business purchased from other inputs into its credit loss assessments. Uncollectible the close of the third quarter. Goodwill impairment is carrying amount of the asset exceeds its estimated fair
insurers are also classified as DAC in the Consolidated reinsurance recoverable balances are written off measured and recognized as the amount by which a value.
Statements of Financial Position. The costs capitalized against the allowances when there is no reasonable reporting unit’s carrying value, including goodwill,
represent the present value of future profits expected expectation of recovery. exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying
to be earned over the lives of the contracts acquired. amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. The
These costs are amortized as profits emerge over the Company also reviews goodwill for impairment
210 2022 Annual Report 211 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
original assumptions and a premium deficiency is lives of the acquired business and are periodically The changes in the allowances are reported in whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as
determined to exist, any remaining unamortized DAC evaluated for recoverability. The present value of property and casualty insurance claims and claims deteriorating or adverse market conditions, indicate
balance would be expensed to the extent not future profits was $13 million and $24 million as of expense and accident, health and other policy benefits. that it is more likely than not that the carrying amount
recoverable and the establishment of a premium December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. of the reporting unit including goodwill may exceed the
Indemnification The Company also participates in
deficiency reserve may be required for any remaining Amortization expense of the present value of future fair value of the reporting unit. The goodwill
various indemnification mechanisms, including industry
deficiency. profits was $11 million, $323 million and $14 million in impairment analysis is performed at the reporting unit
pools and facilities, which are reimbursement
2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. level.
For interest-sensitive life insurance, DAC is mechanisms that assess participating insurers for
amortized in proportion to the incidence of the total Reinsurance and Indemnification expected insured claims, reimburse participating As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the fair value of
present value of gross profits expected to be earned insurers for qualifying paid claims and permit the Company’s goodwill reporting units exceeded their
Reinsurance In the normal course of business, the
over the estimated lives of the contracts. participating insurers to recoup amounts assessed carrying values.
Company seeks to limit aggregate and single exposure
directly from insureds. Indemnification recoverables
Gross profits primarily consist of the following to losses on large risks by purchasing reinsurance. The Intangible assets
are backed by the financial resources of the property
components: contract charges for the cost of Company has also used reinsurance to affect the
and casualty insurance company market participants. Intangible assets (reported in other assets) consist
insurance less mortality costs and other benefits; disposition of certain blocks of business. Reinsurance
of capitalized costs primarily related to acquired
investment income and net gains and losses on does not extinguish the Company’s primary liability The amounts reported as indemnification
distribution and customer relationships, trade names
investments less interest credited; and surrender and under the policies written. Therefore, in addition to recoverables include amounts paid and due from
and licenses, technology and other assets. The
other contract charges less maintenance expenses. establishing allowances as appropriate after evaluating indemnitors as well as estimates of amounts expected
estimated useful lives of distribution and customer
The principal assumptions for determining the amount reinsurers’ activities related to claims settlement to be recovered from indemnitors on insurance
relationships, technology and other intangible assets
of gross profits are mortality, persistency, expenses, practices and commutations, the Company evaluates liabilities that have been incurred but not yet paid. The
are generally 10 years, 5 years and 7 years,
investment returns and interest crediting rates to reinsurer counterparty credit risk and records design and function of these indemnification programs
respectively. Intangible assets are carried at cost less
contractholders. reinsurance recoverables net of credit loss allowances. does not result in the retention of insurance or
accumulated amortization.
The Company assesses counterparty credit risk for reinsurance risk by the indemnitee. Based on the
The Company performs quarterly reviews of DAC
individual reinsurers separately when more relevant or Company’s evaluation of these programs on an Intangible assets by type
recoverability for interest-sensitive life using actual
on a pooled basis when shared risk characteristics individual basis, the establishment of credit loss
experience and current assumptions. December 31,
exist. The evaluation considers the credit quality of the allowances is not warranted at this time. The Company
($ in millions) 2022 2021
The DAC balance presented includes adjustments reinsurer and the period over which the recoverable has not experienced any historical credit losses related
to reflect the amount by which the amortization of DAC balances are expected to be collected. The Company to its indemnification programs. The Company Distribution and customer
relationships $ 697 $ 909
would increase or decrease if the unrealized capital considers factors including past events, current continues to monitor these programs to determine
Trade names and licenses 179 206
gains or losses in the respective product investment conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts whether any changes from historical experience have
portfolios were actually realized. The adjustments are in the development of the estimate of credit loss emerged or are expected to emerge or whether there Technology and other 301 305
recorded net of tax in AOCI. DAC and deferred income allowances. have been any changes in the design or administration Total $ 1,177 $ 1,420
taxes determined on unrealized capital gains and of the programs that would require establishment of
Allowances for property and casualty and accident
losses and reported in AOCI recognize the impact on credit loss allowances. Amortization expense is calculated using an
and health reinsurance recoverables are established
shareholders’ equity consistently with the amounts accelerated amortization method. Amortization
primarily through risk-based evaluations. Goodwill
that would be recognized in the income statement on expense on intangible assets was $353 million,
net gains and losses on investments and derivatives. The property and casualty recoverable evaluation Goodwill represents the excess of amounts paid for $376 million and $118 million in 2022, 2021 and 2020,
considers the credit rating of the reinsurer, the period acquiring businesses over the fair value of the net respectively.
Customers of the Company may exchange one
over which the reinsurance recoverable balances are assets acquired, less any impairment of goodwill
insurance policy for another offered by the Company, Amortization expense of intangible assets for the
expected to be recovered and other relevant factors recognized. The Company’s goodwill reporting units
or make modifications to an existing life, accident and next five years and thereafter
including historical experience of reinsurer failures. are equivalent to its reportable segments to which
health or property and casualty contract issued by the ($ in millions)
Reinsurers in liquidation or in default status are goodwill has been assigned: Allstate Protection,
Company. These transactions are identified as internal 2023 $ 313
evaluated individually using the Company’s historical Protection Services, and Allstate Health and Benefits.
replacements for accounting purposes. Internal liquidation recovery assumptions and any other 2024 248
replacement transactions determined to result in relevant information available including the most Goodwill by reporting unit 2025 201
replacement contracts that are substantially recent public information related to the financial December 31, 2026 91
unchanged from the replaced contracts are accounted
condition or liquidation status of the reinsurer. For ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2027 64
for as continuations of the replaced contracts.
accident and health reinsurance recoverables, the Allstate Protection $ 1,563 $ 1,563 Thereafter 88
Unamortized DAC related to the replaced contracts
continue to be deferred and amortized in connection Company uses a probability of default and loss given Protection Services 1,494 1,494 Total amortization $ 1,005
default model developed independently of the Allstate Health and Benefits 445 445
with the replacement contracts. For traditional life,
Company to estimate current expected credit losses.
accident and health and property and casualty Total $ 3,502 $ 3,502 Accumulated amortization of intangible assets was
The accident and health reinsurance recoverable
insurance policies, any changes to unamortized DAC $1.48 billion and $1.13 billion as of December 31, 2022
evaluation utilizes factors including historical industry
that result from replacement contracts are treated as Goodwill is recognized when acquired and and 2021, respectively.
factors based on the probability of liquidation, and
prospective revisions and any costs associated with allocated to reporting units based on which unit is
incorporates current loss given default factors Trade names and licenses are considered to have
the issuance of replacement contracts are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business
reflective of the industry. an indefinite useful life and are reviewed for
characterized as maintenance costs and expensed as combination. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested
impairment at least annually or more frequent if
incurred. The Company monitors the credit ratings of for impairment at least annually. The Company
circumstances arise that indicate an impairment may
reinsurer counterparties and evaluates the performs its annual goodwill impairment testing during
The costs assigned to the right to receive future circumstances surrounding credit rating changes as the fourth quarter of each year based upon data as of have occurred. An impairment is recognized if the
cash flows from certain business purchased from other inputs into its credit loss assessments. Uncollectible the close of the third quarter. Goodwill impairment is carrying amount of the asset exceeds its estimated fair
insurers are also classified as DAC in the Consolidated reinsurance recoverable balances are written off measured and recognized as the amount by which a value.
Statements of Financial Position. The costs capitalized against the allowances when there is no reasonable reporting unit’s carrying value, including goodwill,
represent the present value of future profits expected expectation of recovery. exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying
to be earned over the lives of the contracts acquired. amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. The
These costs are amortized as profits emerge over the Company also reviews goodwill for impairment
210 2022 Annual Report 211 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Property and equipment inflation. The Company has also digitized and modified would favorably or unfavorably impact the ultimate Pension and other postretirement service cost,
claim processes to increase effectiveness and settlement of the Company’s losses and LAE. interest cost, expected return on plan assets and
Property and equipment is carried at cost less
efficiency. The historical development patterns for amortization of prior service credits are allocated to
accumulated depreciation. Included in property and The anticipated effect of inflation is implicitly
these data elements are used as the assumptions to the Company’s reportable segments. The pension and
equipment are capitalized costs related to computer considered when estimating liabilities for losses and
calculate reserve estimates, including the reserves for other postretirement remeasurement gains and losses
software licenses and software developed for internal LAE. In addition to inflation, the average severity of
reported and unreported claims; however, when the are reported in the Corporate and Other segment.
use. These costs generally consist of certain external claims is affected by a number of factors that may vary
Company experiences changes it may lead to historical
payroll and payroll related costs. Property and by types and features of policies written. Future Legal contingencies
development trends being less predictive of future loss
equipment depreciation is calculated using the average severities are projected from historical trends,
development, potentially creating additional reserve The Company reviews its lawsuits, regulatory
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of adjusted for implemented changes in underwriting
variability. Reserve estimates are regularly reviewed inquiries, and other legal proceedings on an ongoing
the assets, generally 3 to 10 years for equipment and standards and policy provisions, as well as general
and updated, using the most current data and basis. The Company establishes accruals for such
40 years for real property. Depreciation expense is economic trends. These estimated trends are
information available. Any resulting reestimates are matters at management’s best estimate when the
reported in operating costs and expenses. monitored and revised as necessary based on actual
reflected in current results of operations. Company assesses that it is probable that a loss has
Accumulated depreciation on property and equipment development.
been incurred and the amount of the loss can be
was $2.45 billion and $2.44 billion as of December 31, Reserve for future policy benefits
Unpaid losses include a provision for incurred-but- reasonably estimated. The Company’s assessment of
2022 and 2021, respectively. Depreciation expense on
The reserve for future policy benefits payable not-reported (“IBNR”) reserve estimates representing whether a loss is reasonably possible or probable is
property and equipment was $335 million, $411 million
under insurance policies, including voluntary accident claims that have occurred but have not yet been based on its assessment of the ultimate outcome of
and $353 million in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
and health insurance and traditional life insurance reported, some of which are not yet known to the the matter following all appeals. The Company does
The Company reviews its property and equipment for
products, is computed on the basis of long-term insured, as well as a provision for future development not include potential recoveries in its estimates of
impairment at least annually and whenever events or
actuarial assumptions of future investment yields, on reported claims. IBNR reserves are generally reasonably possible or probable losses. Legal fees are
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
mortality, morbidity, policy terminations and expenses. calculated by first projecting the ultimate cost of all expensed as incurred.
amount may not be recoverable.
These assumptions include provisions for adverse claims that have occurred and then subtracting
Debt
Income taxes deviation and generally vary by characteristics such as reported losses and loss expenses. Reported losses
type of coverage, year of issue and policy duration. The include cumulative paid losses and loss expenses plus Debt includes senior notes, senior debentures,
Income taxes are accounted for using the asset
assumptions are established at the time the policy is case reserves. subordinated debentures and junior subordinated
and liability method under which deferred tax assets
issued and are generally not changed during the life of debentures issued by the Corporation. Unamortized
and liabilities are recognized for temporary differences Contractholder funds
the policy. The Company periodically reviews the debt issuance costs and fair value adjustments are
between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets
adequacy of reserves using actual experience and Contractholder funds represent interest-bearing reported in debt and are amortized over the expected
and liabilities at the enacted tax rates. The principal
current assumptions. If actual experience and current liabilities arising primarily from the sale of interest- period the debt will remain outstanding.
assets and liabilities giving rise to such differences are
assumptions are adverse compared to the original sensitive life insurance contracts. Contractholder funds
DAC, unearned premiums, investments (including Equity incentive plans
assumptions and a premium deficiency is determined primarily comprise cumulative deposits received and
unrealized capital gains and losses), intangible assets
to exist, any remaining unamortized DAC balance interest credited to the contractholder less cumulative The Company has equity incentive plans under
and insurance reserves. A deferred tax asset valuation
would be expensed to the extent not recoverable and contract benefits, surrenders, withdrawals and which it grants nonqualified stock options, restricted
allowance is established when it is more likely than not
the establishment of a premium deficiency reserve contract charges for mortality or administrative stock units and performance stock awards (“equity
such assets will not be realized. The Company
may be required for any remaining deficiency. expenses. awards”) to certain employees and directors of the
recognizes interest expense related to income tax
Voluntary accident and health insurance and traditional Company. The Company measures the fair value of
matters in income tax expense and penalties in Pension and other postretirement remeasurement
life insurance products are reviewed individually. The equity awards at the grant date and recognizes the
operating costs and expenses. gains and losses
Company also reviews these policies for circumstances expense over the shorter of the period in which the
Reserve for property and casualty insurance claims where projected profits would be recognized in early The Company’s policy is to remeasure its pension requisite service is rendered or retirement eligibility is
and claims expense years followed by projected losses in later years. If this and postretirement plans on a quarterly basis. Pension attained. The expense for performance stock awards
circumstance exists, the Company will accrue a liability, and other postretirement gains and losses represent with no market condition is adjusted each period to
The reserve for property and casualty insurance
during the period of profits, to offset the losses at such the remeasurement of projected benefit obligations reflect the performance factor most likely to be
claims and claims expense is the estimate of amounts
time as the future losses are expected to commence and differences between the expected and actual achieved at the end of the performance period. The
necessary to settle all reported and unreported
using a method updated prospectively over time. return on plan assets, which are immediately expense for performance stock awards with a market
incurred claims for the ultimate cost of insured
recognized in earnings and are referred to as pension condition is based on the fair value of the awards at
property and casualty losses, based upon the facts of Accident and health short duration contracts The
and other postretirement remeasurement gains and the grant date which incorporates the probability of
each case and the Company’s experience with similar reserve for future policy benefits includes unpaid
losses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. achieving the market condition. In the event the
cases. Estimated amounts of salvage and subrogation losses and loss adjustment expense (“LAE”) reserves
market condition is not met, any previously recognized
are deducted from the reserve for claims and claims for individual and certain voluntary accident and health Differences in actual experience and changes in
expense is not reversed. The Company uses a binomial
expense. The establishment of appropriate reserves, short-duration contracts and is an estimate of the other assumptions affect the Company’s pension and
lattice model to determine the fair value of employee
including reserves for catastrophe losses, is an Company’s liability from incurred claims at the end of other postretirement obligations and expenses.
stock options. The Company uses a Monte Carlo
inherently uncertain and complex process. Reserve the reporting period. The unpaid losses and LAE Differences between expected and actual returns on
simulation model to determine the fair value of
estimates are primarily derived using an actuarial reserves are the result of an ongoing analysis of recent plan assets affect remeasurement gains and losses.
performance stock awards with a market condition.
estimation process in which historical loss patterns are loss development trends and emerging historical
applied to actual paid losses and reported losses (paid experience. Original estimates are increased or The primary factors contributing to pension and
losses plus individual case reserves established by decreased as additional information becomes known postretirement remeasurement gains and losses are:
claim adjusters) for an accident or report year to create regarding individual claims. In setting its reserves, the
• Changes in the discount rate used to value pension and
an estimate of how losses are likely to develop over Company reviews its loss data to estimate expected
postretirement obligations as of the measurement date
time. Development factors are calculated quarterly and loss development. Management believes that its use of
• Differences between the expected and the actual return
periodically throughout the year for data elements standard actuarial methodology applied to its analyses
on plan assets
such as claims reported and settled, paid losses, and of its historical experience provides a reasonable
• Changes in demographic assumptions, including
paid losses combined with case reserves. The effects estimate of future losses. However, actual future losses mortality and participant experience
of inflation are implicitly considered in the reserving may differ from the Company’s estimate, and may be • Changes in lump sum interest rates used to value
process as a development factor using historic data affected by future events, including inflation and pension obligations as of the measurement date
incorporated as a reasonable estimate of future changes in law and judicial interpretations, which
212 2022 Annual Report 213 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Property and equipment inflation. The Company has also digitized and modified would favorably or unfavorably impact the ultimate Pension and other postretirement service cost,
claim processes to increase effectiveness and settlement of the Company’s losses and LAE. interest cost, expected return on plan assets and
Property and equipment is carried at cost less
efficiency. The historical development patterns for amortization of prior service credits are allocated to
accumulated depreciation. Included in property and The anticipated effect of inflation is implicitly
these data elements are used as the assumptions to the Company’s reportable segments. The pension and
equipment are capitalized costs related to computer considered when estimating liabilities for losses and
calculate reserve estimates, including the reserves for other postretirement remeasurement gains and losses
software licenses and software developed for internal LAE. In addition to inflation, the average severity of
reported and unreported claims; however, when the are reported in the Corporate and Other segment.
use. These costs generally consist of certain external claims is affected by a number of factors that may vary
Company experiences changes it may lead to historical
payroll and payroll related costs. Property and by types and features of policies written. Future Legal contingencies
development trends being less predictive of future loss
equipment depreciation is calculated using the average severities are projected from historical trends,
development, potentially creating additional reserve The Company reviews its lawsuits, regulatory
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of adjusted for implemented changes in underwriting
variability. Reserve estimates are regularly reviewed inquiries, and other legal proceedings on an ongoing
the assets, generally 3 to 10 years for equipment and standards and policy provisions, as well as general
and updated, using the most current data and basis. The Company establishes accruals for such
40 years for real property. Depreciation expense is economic trends. These estimated trends are
information available. Any resulting reestimates are matters at management’s best estimate when the
reported in operating costs and expenses. monitored and revised as necessary based on actual
reflected in current results of operations. Company assesses that it is probable that a loss has
Accumulated depreciation on property and equipment development.
been incurred and the amount of the loss can be
was $2.45 billion and $2.44 billion as of December 31, Reserve for future policy benefits
Unpaid losses include a provision for incurred-but- reasonably estimated. The Company’s assessment of
2022 and 2021, respectively. Depreciation expense on
The reserve for future policy benefits payable not-reported (“IBNR”) reserve estimates representing whether a loss is reasonably possible or probable is
property and equipment was $335 million, $411 million
under insurance policies, including voluntary accident claims that have occurred but have not yet been based on its assessment of the ultimate outcome of
and $353 million in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
and health insurance and traditional life insurance reported, some of which are not yet known to the the matter following all appeals. The Company does
The Company reviews its property and equipment for
products, is computed on the basis of long-term insured, as well as a provision for future development not include potential recoveries in its estimates of
impairment at least annually and whenever events or
actuarial assumptions of future investment yields, on reported claims. IBNR reserves are generally reasonably possible or probable losses. Legal fees are
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
mortality, morbidity, policy terminations and expenses. calculated by first projecting the ultimate cost of all expensed as incurred.
amount may not be recoverable.
These assumptions include provisions for adverse claims that have occurred and then subtracting
Debt
Income taxes deviation and generally vary by characteristics such as reported losses and loss expenses. Reported losses
type of coverage, year of issue and policy duration. The include cumulative paid losses and loss expenses plus Debt includes senior notes, senior debentures,
Income taxes are accounted for using the asset
assumptions are established at the time the policy is case reserves. subordinated debentures and junior subordinated
and liability method under which deferred tax assets
issued and are generally not changed during the life of debentures issued by the Corporation. Unamortized
and liabilities are recognized for temporary differences Contractholder funds
the policy. The Company periodically reviews the debt issuance costs and fair value adjustments are
between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets
adequacy of reserves using actual experience and Contractholder funds represent interest-bearing reported in debt and are amortized over the expected
and liabilities at the enacted tax rates. The principal
current assumptions. If actual experience and current liabilities arising primarily from the sale of interest- period the debt will remain outstanding.
assets and liabilities giving rise to such differences are
assumptions are adverse compared to the original sensitive life insurance contracts. Contractholder funds
DAC, unearned premiums, investments (including Equity incentive plans
assumptions and a premium deficiency is determined primarily comprise cumulative deposits received and
unrealized capital gains and losses), intangible assets
to exist, any remaining unamortized DAC balance interest credited to the contractholder less cumulative The Company has equity incentive plans under
and insurance reserves. A deferred tax asset valuation
would be expensed to the extent not recoverable and contract benefits, surrenders, withdrawals and which it grants nonqualified stock options, restricted
allowance is established when it is more likely than not
the establishment of a premium deficiency reserve contract charges for mortality or administrative stock units and performance stock awards (“equity
such assets will not be realized. The Company
may be required for any remaining deficiency. expenses. awards”) to certain employees and directors of the
recognizes interest expense related to income tax
Voluntary accident and health insurance and traditional Company. The Company measures the fair value of
matters in income tax expense and penalties in Pension and other postretirement remeasurement
life insurance products are reviewed individually. The equity awards at the grant date and recognizes the
operating costs and expenses. gains and losses
Company also reviews these policies for circumstances expense over the shorter of the period in which the
Reserve for property and casualty insurance claims where projected profits would be recognized in early The Company’s policy is to remeasure its pension requisite service is rendered or retirement eligibility is
and claims expense years followed by projected losses in later years. If this and postretirement plans on a quarterly basis. Pension attained. The expense for performance stock awards
circumstance exists, the Company will accrue a liability, and other postretirement gains and losses represent with no market condition is adjusted each period to
The reserve for property and casualty insurance
during the period of profits, to offset the losses at such the remeasurement of projected benefit obligations reflect the performance factor most likely to be
claims and claims expense is the estimate of amounts
time as the future losses are expected to commence and differences between the expected and actual achieved at the end of the performance period. The
necessary to settle all reported and unreported
using a method updated prospectively over time. return on plan assets, which are immediately expense for performance stock awards with a market
incurred claims for the ultimate cost of insured
recognized in earnings and are referred to as pension condition is based on the fair value of the awards at
property and casualty losses, based upon the facts of Accident and health short duration contracts The
and other postretirement remeasurement gains and the grant date which incorporates the probability of
each case and the Company’s experience with similar reserve for future policy benefits includes unpaid
losses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. achieving the market condition. In the event the
cases. Estimated amounts of salvage and subrogation losses and loss adjustment expense (“LAE”) reserves
market condition is not met, any previously recognized
are deducted from the reserve for claims and claims for individual and certain voluntary accident and health Differences in actual experience and changes in
expense is not reversed. The Company uses a binomial
expense. The establishment of appropriate reserves, short-duration contracts and is an estimate of the other assumptions affect the Company’s pension and
lattice model to determine the fair value of employee
including reserves for catastrophe losses, is an Company’s liability from incurred claims at the end of other postretirement obligations and expenses.
stock options. The Company uses a Monte Carlo
inherently uncertain and complex process. Reserve the reporting period. The unpaid losses and LAE Differences between expected and actual returns on
simulation model to determine the fair value of
estimates are primarily derived using an actuarial reserves are the result of an ongoing analysis of recent plan assets affect remeasurement gains and losses.
performance stock awards with a market condition.
estimation process in which historical loss patterns are loss development trends and emerging historical
applied to actual paid losses and reported losses (paid experience. Original estimates are increased or The primary factors contributing to pension and
losses plus individual case reserves established by decreased as additional information becomes known postretirement remeasurement gains and losses are:
claim adjusters) for an accident or report year to create regarding individual claims. In setting its reserves, the
• Changes in the discount rate used to value pension and
an estimate of how losses are likely to develop over Company reviews its loss data to estimate expected
postretirement obligations as of the measurement date
time. Development factors are calculated quarterly and loss development. Management believes that its use of
• Differences between the expected and the actual return
periodically throughout the year for data elements standard actuarial methodology applied to its analyses
on plan assets
such as claims reported and settled, paid losses, and of its historical experience provides a reasonable
• Changes in demographic assumptions, including
paid losses combined with case reserves. The effects estimate of future losses. However, actual future losses mortality and participant experience
of inflation are implicitly considered in the reserving may differ from the Company’s estimate, and may be • Changes in lump sum interest rates used to value
process as a development factor using historic data affected by future events, including inflation and pension obligations as of the measurement date
incorporated as a reasonable estimate of future changes in law and judicial interpretations, which
212 2022 Annual Report 213 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Measurement of credit losses loss allowances. For additional information, refer to the Consolidation of variable interest entities Foreign currency translation
Investments, Reinsurance, Indemnification or
The Company carries an allowance for expected A VIE is a legal entity that does not have sufficient The local currency of the Company’s foreign
Recognition of premium revenues and contract
credit losses for all financial assets measured at equity at risk to finance its activities without additional subsidiaries is deemed to be the functional currency of
charges, topics of this section.
amortized cost on the Consolidated Statements of financial support or is structured such that equity the country in which these subsidiaries operate. The
Financial Position. The Company considers past The Company also estimates a credit loss investors lack the ability to make significant decisions financial statements of the Company’s foreign
events, current conditions, and reasonable and allowance for commitments to fund mortgage loans relating to the entity’s operations through voting rights subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at the
supportable forecasts in estimating an allowance for and bank loans unless they are unconditionally or do not participate in the gains and losses of the exchange rate in effect at the end of a reporting period
credit losses. The Company also carries a credit loss cancellable by the Company. The related allowance is entity. The Company consolidates VIEs in which the for assets and liabilities and at average exchange rates
allowance for fixed income securities where applicable reported in other liabilities and accrued expenses. Company is deemed the primary beneficiary. The during the period for results of operations.
and, when amortized cost is reported, it is net of credit primary beneficiary is the entity that has both (1) the
The unrealized gains and losses from the
obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive
Allowance for credit losses benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE translation of the net assets are recorded as unrealized
foreign currency translation adjustments and included
As of December 31, and (2) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that
in AOCI. Changes in unrealized foreign currency
($ in millions) 2022 2021 most significantly affect that entity’s economic
translation adjustments are included in other
Fixed income securities $ 13 $ 6 performance.
comprehensive income (“OCI”). Gains and losses from
Mortgage loans 7 6
Discontinued Operations and Held for Sale foreign currency transactions are reported in operating
Bank loans 57 61 costs and expenses and have not been material.
A business is classified as held for sale when
Investments 77 73
management having the authority to approve the Earnings per common share
Premium installment receivables 132 107
action commits to a plan to sell the business, the sale
Reinsurance recoverables 65 74 Basic earnings per common share is computed
is probable to occur during the next 12 months at a
Other assets 19 26 using the weighted average number of common shares
price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair
Assets 293 280 value and certain other criteria are met. A business outstanding, including vested unissued participating
restricted stock units. Diluted earnings per common
classified as held for sale is recorded at the lower of its
Commitments to fund mortgage loans and bank loans — — share is computed using the weighted average number
carrying amount or estimated fair value less cost to
Liabilities — — of common and dilutive potential common shares
sell. When the carrying amount of the business
Total $ 293 $ 280 outstanding.
exceeds its estimated fair value less cost to sell, a loss
Leases which are incorporated into the Company’s is recognized and updated each reporting period as For the Company, dilutive potential common
measurements when it is reasonably certain that the appropriate. shares consist of outstanding stock options and
The Company has certain operating leases for
Company will exercise the option. unvested non-participating restricted stock units and
office facilities, computer and office equipment, and The Company completed its sale of the life and
contingently issuable performance stock awards. The
vehicles. The Company’s leases have remaining lease Operating lease costs are recognized on a annuity business in 2021.
effect of dilutive potential common shares does not
terms of generally 1 year to 8 years, some of which straight-line basis over the lease term and include
The results of operations of business classified as include options with an anti-dilutive effect on earnings
include options to extend the leases for up to 20 years, interest expense on the lease liability and amortization
held for sale are reported as discontinued operations if per common share because their exercise prices
and some of which include options to terminate the of the ROU asset. Variable lease costs are expensed as
the disposal represents a strategic shift that will have a exceed the average market price of Allstate common
leases within 60 days. incurred and include maintenance costs and real
major effect on the entity’s operations and financial shares during the period or for which the unrecognized
estate taxes. Lease costs are reported in operating
The Company determines if an arrangement is a results. The disposal of a reportable segment generally compensation cost would have an anti-dilutive effect.
costs and expenses and totaled $131 million and $162
lease at inception. Leases with an initial term less than qualifies for discontinued operations presentation.
million, including $23 million and $30 million of variable
one year are not recorded on the balance sheet and
lease costs in 2022 and 2021, respectively. When a business is identified for discontinued
the lease costs for these leases are recorded as an
operations reporting:
expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Other information related to operating leases
Operating leases with terms greater than one year December 31, • Results for prior periods are retrospectively
result in a lease liability recorded in other liabilities with reclassified as discontinued operations
2022 2021
a corresponding right-of-use (“ROU”) asset recorded in
Weighted average remaining • Results of operations are reported in a single line,
other assets. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the 4 5
lease term (years) net of tax, in the Consolidated Statements of
Company had $343 million and $465 million in lease
Weighted average discount Operations
liabilities and $234 million and $314 million in ROU 3.08 % 3.09 %
rate
assets, respectively. • Assets and liabilities are reported as held for sale in
the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position in
Operating lease liabilities are recognized at the Maturity of lease liabilities
the period in which the business is classified as held
commencement date based on the present value of ($ in millions) Operating leases
for sale
future minimum lease payments over the lease term. 2023 $ 100
ROU assets are recognized based on the 2024 97 Additional details by major classification of
corresponding lease liabilities adjusted for qualifying operating results and financial position are included in
2025 71
initial direct costs, prepaid or accrued lease payments Note 3.
2026 41
and unamortized lease incentives. As most of the
2027 26
Company’s leases do not disclose the implicit interest
Thereafter 32
rate, the Company uses collateralized incremental
borrowing rates based on information available at lease Total lease payments $ 367
commencement when determining the present value Less: interest (24)
of future lease payments. The Company has lease Present value of lease liabilities $ 343
agreements with lease and non-lease components,
which are accounted for as a single lease. Lease terms
may include options to extend or terminate the lease
214 2022 Annual Report 215 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Measurement of credit losses loss allowances. For additional information, refer to the Consolidation of variable interest entities Foreign currency translation
Investments, Reinsurance, Indemnification or
The Company carries an allowance for expected A VIE is a legal entity that does not have sufficient The local currency of the Company’s foreign
Recognition of premium revenues and contract
credit losses for all financial assets measured at equity at risk to finance its activities without additional subsidiaries is deemed to be the functional currency of
charges, topics of this section.
amortized cost on the Consolidated Statements of financial support or is structured such that equity the country in which these subsidiaries operate. The
Financial Position. The Company considers past The Company also estimates a credit loss investors lack the ability to make significant decisions financial statements of the Company’s foreign
events, current conditions, and reasonable and allowance for commitments to fund mortgage loans relating to the entity’s operations through voting rights subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at the
supportable forecasts in estimating an allowance for and bank loans unless they are unconditionally or do not participate in the gains and losses of the exchange rate in effect at the end of a reporting period
credit losses. The Company also carries a credit loss cancellable by the Company. The related allowance is entity. The Company consolidates VIEs in which the for assets and liabilities and at average exchange rates
allowance for fixed income securities where applicable reported in other liabilities and accrued expenses. Company is deemed the primary beneficiary. The during the period for results of operations.
and, when amortized cost is reported, it is net of credit primary beneficiary is the entity that has both (1) the
The unrealized gains and losses from the
obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive
Allowance for credit losses benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE translation of the net assets are recorded as unrealized
foreign currency translation adjustments and included
As of December 31, and (2) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that
in AOCI. Changes in unrealized foreign currency
($ in millions) 2022 2021 most significantly affect that entity’s economic
translation adjustments are included in other
Fixed income securities $ 13 $ 6 performance.
comprehensive income (“OCI”). Gains and losses from
Mortgage loans 7 6
Discontinued Operations and Held for Sale foreign currency transactions are reported in operating
Bank loans 57 61 costs and expenses and have not been material.
A business is classified as held for sale when
Investments 77 73
management having the authority to approve the Earnings per common share
Premium installment receivables 132 107
action commits to a plan to sell the business, the sale
Reinsurance recoverables 65 74 Basic earnings per common share is computed
is probable to occur during the next 12 months at a
Other assets 19 26 using the weighted average number of common shares
price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair
Assets 293 280 value and certain other criteria are met. A business outstanding, including vested unissued participating
restricted stock units. Diluted earnings per common
classified as held for sale is recorded at the lower of its
Commitments to fund mortgage loans and bank loans — — share is computed using the weighted average number
carrying amount or estimated fair value less cost to
Liabilities — — of common and dilutive potential common shares
sell. When the carrying amount of the business
Total $ 293 $ 280 outstanding.
exceeds its estimated fair value less cost to sell, a loss
Leases which are incorporated into the Company’s is recognized and updated each reporting period as For the Company, dilutive potential common
measurements when it is reasonably certain that the appropriate. shares consist of outstanding stock options and
The Company has certain operating leases for
Company will exercise the option. unvested non-participating restricted stock units and
office facilities, computer and office equipment, and The Company completed its sale of the life and
contingently issuable performance stock awards. The
vehicles. The Company’s leases have remaining lease Operating lease costs are recognized on a annuity business in 2021.
effect of dilutive potential common shares does not
terms of generally 1 year to 8 years, some of which straight-line basis over the lease term and include
The results of operations of business classified as include options with an anti-dilutive effect on earnings
include options to extend the leases for up to 20 years, interest expense on the lease liability and amortization
held for sale are reported as discontinued operations if per common share because their exercise prices
and some of which include options to terminate the of the ROU asset. Variable lease costs are expensed as
the disposal represents a strategic shift that will have a exceed the average market price of Allstate common
leases within 60 days. incurred and include maintenance costs and real
major effect on the entity’s operations and financial shares during the period or for which the unrecognized
estate taxes. Lease costs are reported in operating
The Company determines if an arrangement is a results. The disposal of a reportable segment generally compensation cost would have an anti-dilutive effect.
costs and expenses and totaled $131 million and $162
lease at inception. Leases with an initial term less than qualifies for discontinued operations presentation.
million, including $23 million and $30 million of variable
one year are not recorded on the balance sheet and
lease costs in 2022 and 2021, respectively. When a business is identified for discontinued
the lease costs for these leases are recorded as an
operations reporting:
expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Other information related to operating leases
Operating leases with terms greater than one year December 31, • Results for prior periods are retrospectively
result in a lease liability recorded in other liabilities with reclassified as discontinued operations
2022 2021
a corresponding right-of-use (“ROU”) asset recorded in
Weighted average remaining • Results of operations are reported in a single line,
other assets. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the 4 5
lease term (years) net of tax, in the Consolidated Statements of
Company had $343 million and $465 million in lease
Weighted average discount Operations
liabilities and $234 million and $314 million in ROU 3.08 % 3.09 %
rate
assets, respectively. • Assets and liabilities are reported as held for sale in
the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position in
Operating lease liabilities are recognized at the Maturity of lease liabilities
the period in which the business is classified as held
commencement date based on the present value of ($ in millions) Operating leases
for sale
future minimum lease payments over the lease term. 2023 $ 100
ROU assets are recognized based on the 2024 97 Additional details by major classification of
corresponding lease liabilities adjusted for qualifying operating results and financial position are included in
2025 71
initial direct costs, prepaid or accrued lease payments Note 3.
2026 41
and unamortized lease incentives. As most of the
2027 26
Company’s leases do not disclose the implicit interest
Thereafter 32
rate, the Company uses collateralized incremental
borrowing rates based on information available at lease Total lease payments $ 367
commencement when determining the present value Less: interest (24)
of future lease payments. The Company has lease Present value of lease liabilities $ 343
agreements with lease and non-lease components,
which are accounted for as a single lease. Lease terms
may include options to extend or terminate the lease
214 2022 Annual Report 215 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Computation of basic and diluted earnings per common share Pending accounting standard sold contracts that meet the conditions included in
For the years ended December 31, ASU 2022-05.
Accounting for Long-Duration Insurance Contracts
($ in millions, except per share data) 2022 2021 2020 In August 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards The Company will adopt the new guidance
Numerator: Board (“FASB”) issued guidance revising the effective January 1, 2023, using the modified
Net (loss) income from continuing operations $ (1,364) $ 5,159 $ 5,429 accounting for certain long-duration insurance retrospective approach. The Company is finalizing its
Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (53) (33) — contracts. As disclosed in Note 3, the Company sold implementation activities which include updating
Net (loss) income from continuing operations attributable to Allstate (1,311) 5,192 5,429 substantially all of its life and annuity business in scope processes and controls resulting from the new
of the new standard. The Company’s reserves and DAC guidance, model validation, and establishing new
Less: Preferred stock dividends 105 114 115
for certain voluntary and individual life and accident accounting policies and practices for validating model
Net (loss) income from continuing operations applicable to common
shareholders (1,416) 5,078 5,314 and health insurance products are subject to the new inputs and assumptions on a periodic basis.
guidance.
Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax — (3,593) 147
Impact of adoption at January 1, 2021
Net (loss) income applicable to common shareholders $ (1,416) $ 1,485 $ 5,461 Under the new guidance, measurement
Decrease in equity $250 million to $350 million
assumptions, including those for mortality, morbidity
Denominator: and policy terminations, will be required to be reviewed Decrease in retained
Weighted average common shares outstanding 271.2 294.8 311.6 at least annually, and updated as appropriate. The income $15 million to $35 million
Effect of dilutive potential common shares (1): effects of updating assumptions other than the Decrease in AOCI $235 million to $315 million
discount rate are required to be measured on a
Stock options — 2.7 2.2
retrospective basis and reported in net income. In The expected decrease in equity includes the
Restricted stock units (non-participating) and performance stock awards — 1.6 1.7
addition, reserves under the new guidance are required anticipated decrease in AOCI primarily attributable to a
Weighted average common and dilutive potential common shares to be discounted using an upper-medium grade fixed change in the discount rate used in measuring the
outstanding 271.2 299.1 315.5
income instrument yield that is updated through OCI at liability for future policy benefits for traditional life
Earnings per share applicable to common shareholders each reporting date. Current GAAP requires the contracts and other long-term products with
Basic measurement of reserves to utilize assumptions set at guaranteed terms from a portfolio-based rate at
Continuing operations $ (5.22) $ 17.23 $ 17.06 policy issuance unless updated current assumptions contract issuance to an upper-medium grade fixed
Discontinued operations — (12.19) 0.47 indicate that recorded reserves are deficient. income-based rate. The expected decrease in equity
also includes the anticipated decrease in retained
Total $ (5.22) $ 5.04 $ 17.53 The new guidance also requires DAC and other
income which primarily relates to certain long-term
Diluted (1) capitalized balances currently amortized in proportion contracts with guaranteed terms with net premium
to premiums or gross profits to be amortized on a
Continuing operations $ (5.22) $ 16.98 $ 16.84 ratios that are required to be adjusted at the transition
constant level basis over the expected term for all
Discontinued operations — (12.02) 0.47 date. The impact on equity, AOCI, and retained income
long-duration insurance contracts. DAC will not be
Total $ (5.22) $ 4.96 $ 17.31 excludes sold contracts that would meet the
subject to loss recognition testing but will be reduced
conditions included in ASU 2022-05.
Anti-dilutive options excluded from diluted earnings per common share 1.7 1.3 2.9 when actual lapse experience exceeds expected
Weighted average dilutive potential common shares excluded due to net loss experience. Impact of adoption to AOCI and net income
applicable to common shareholders (1) 3.1 — —
The new guidance is effective for financial As of and for the years ended
statements issued for reporting periods beginning December 31,
(1) As a result of the net loss reported for the year ended December 31, 2022, weighted average shares for basic earnings per share after December 15, 2022 and restatement of prior 2022 2021
is also used for calculating diluted earnings per share because all dilutive potential common shares are anti-dilutive and are
therefore excluded from the calculation. periods presented is required. The new guidance will $0 million to $(50) $(200) million to
be applied to affected contracts and DAC on the basis Ending AOCI (1) million $(250) million
of existing carrying amounts at the earliest period Increase in net $5 million to $20 $5 million to $20
presented. income million million
In December 2022, the FASB issued Accounting (1) Represents the impact of adoption to the ending balance of
Standards Update No. 2022-05 (“ASU 2022-05”) that AOCI reported on the Consolidated Statements of Financial
provides reporting entities with an accounting policy Position.
election to not apply the new guidance to insurance
The estimated impact to AOCI at transition date
contracts in-force on the January 1, 2021 transition
will decline significantly at the effective date due to the
date but sold prior to the January 1, 2023 effective date
increase in the discount rate between the transition
provided certain conditions are met. The Company will
date and effective date.
make an election to not apply the new guidance to
Note 3 Acquisitions and Dispositions
Acquisitions
National General On January 4, 2021, the Company National General provides personal and
completed the acquisition of National General Holdings commercial automobile, homeowners, umbrella,
Corp. (“National General”), an insurance holding recreational vehicle, motorcycle, lender-placed auto
company serving customers predominantly through and property, health and other niche insurance
independent agents for property and casualty and products. This acquisition increased the Company’s
accident and health products. market share in personal property-liability and
enhanced its independent agent distribution platform.
216 2022 Annual Report 217 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Computation of basic and diluted earnings per common share Pending accounting standard sold contracts that meet the conditions included in
For the years ended December 31, ASU 2022-05.
Accounting for Long-Duration Insurance Contracts
($ in millions, except per share data) 2022 2021 2020 In August 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards The Company will adopt the new guidance
Numerator: Board (“FASB”) issued guidance revising the effective January 1, 2023, using the modified
Net (loss) income from continuing operations $ (1,364) $ 5,159 $ 5,429 accounting for certain long-duration insurance retrospective approach. The Company is finalizing its
Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (53) (33) — contracts. As disclosed in Note 3, the Company sold implementation activities which include updating
Net (loss) income from continuing operations attributable to Allstate (1,311) 5,192 5,429 substantially all of its life and annuity business in scope processes and controls resulting from the new
of the new standard. The Company’s reserves and DAC guidance, model validation, and establishing new
Less: Preferred stock dividends 105 114 115
for certain voluntary and individual life and accident accounting policies and practices for validating model
Net (loss) income from continuing operations applicable to common
shareholders (1,416) 5,078 5,314 and health insurance products are subject to the new inputs and assumptions on a periodic basis.
guidance.
Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax — (3,593) 147
Impact of adoption at January 1, 2021
Net (loss) income applicable to common shareholders $ (1,416) $ 1,485 $ 5,461 Under the new guidance, measurement
Decrease in equity $250 million to $350 million
assumptions, including those for mortality, morbidity
Denominator: and policy terminations, will be required to be reviewed Decrease in retained
Weighted average common shares outstanding 271.2 294.8 311.6 at least annually, and updated as appropriate. The income $15 million to $35 million
Effect of dilutive potential common shares (1): effects of updating assumptions other than the Decrease in AOCI $235 million to $315 million
discount rate are required to be measured on a
Stock options — 2.7 2.2
retrospective basis and reported in net income. In The expected decrease in equity includes the
Restricted stock units (non-participating) and performance stock awards — 1.6 1.7
addition, reserves under the new guidance are required anticipated decrease in AOCI primarily attributable to a
Weighted average common and dilutive potential common shares to be discounted using an upper-medium grade fixed change in the discount rate used in measuring the
outstanding 271.2 299.1 315.5
income instrument yield that is updated through OCI at liability for future policy benefits for traditional life
Earnings per share applicable to common shareholders each reporting date. Current GAAP requires the contracts and other long-term products with
Basic measurement of reserves to utilize assumptions set at guaranteed terms from a portfolio-based rate at
Continuing operations $ (5.22) $ 17.23 $ 17.06 policy issuance unless updated current assumptions contract issuance to an upper-medium grade fixed
Discontinued operations — (12.19) 0.47 indicate that recorded reserves are deficient. income-based rate. The expected decrease in equity
also includes the anticipated decrease in retained
Total $ (5.22) $ 5.04 $ 17.53 The new guidance also requires DAC and other
income which primarily relates to certain long-term
Diluted (1) capitalized balances currently amortized in proportion contracts with guaranteed terms with net premium
to premiums or gross profits to be amortized on a
Continuing operations $ (5.22) $ 16.98 $ 16.84 ratios that are required to be adjusted at the transition
constant level basis over the expected term for all
Discontinued operations — (12.02) 0.47 date. The impact on equity, AOCI, and retained income
long-duration insurance contracts. DAC will not be
Total $ (5.22) $ 4.96 $ 17.31 excludes sold contracts that would meet the
subject to loss recognition testing but will be reduced
conditions included in ASU 2022-05.
Anti-dilutive options excluded from diluted earnings per common share 1.7 1.3 2.9 when actual lapse experience exceeds expected
Weighted average dilutive potential common shares excluded due to net loss experience. Impact of adoption to AOCI and net income
applicable to common shareholders (1) 3.1 — —
The new guidance is effective for financial As of and for the years ended
statements issued for reporting periods beginning December 31,
(1) As a result of the net loss reported for the year ended December 31, 2022, weighted average shares for basic earnings per share after December 15, 2022 and restatement of prior 2022 2021
is also used for calculating diluted earnings per share because all dilutive potential common shares are anti-dilutive and are
therefore excluded from the calculation. periods presented is required. The new guidance will $0 million to $(50) $(200) million to
be applied to affected contracts and DAC on the basis Ending AOCI (1) million $(250) million
of existing carrying amounts at the earliest period Increase in net $5 million to $20 $5 million to $20
presented. income million million
In December 2022, the FASB issued Accounting (1) Represents the impact of adoption to the ending balance of
Standards Update No. 2022-05 (“ASU 2022-05”) that AOCI reported on the Consolidated Statements of Financial
provides reporting entities with an accounting policy Position.
election to not apply the new guidance to insurance
The estimated impact to AOCI at transition date
contracts in-force on the January 1, 2021 transition
will decline significantly at the effective date due to the
date but sold prior to the January 1, 2023 effective date
increase in the discount rate between the transition
provided certain conditions are met. The Company will
date and effective date.
make an election to not apply the new guidance to
Note 3 Acquisitions and Dispositions
Acquisitions
National General On January 4, 2021, the Company National General provides personal and
completed the acquisition of National General Holdings commercial automobile, homeowners, umbrella,
Corp. (“National General”), an insurance holding recreational vehicle, motorcycle, lender-placed auto
company serving customers predominantly through and property, health and other niche insurance
independent agents for property and casualty and products. This acquisition increased the Company’s
accident and health products. market share in personal property-liability and
enhanced its independent agent distribution platform.
216 2022 Annual Report 217 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Assets and liabilities recognized in the National General acquisition (1) Dispositions rate. The contingent consideration meets the definition
($ in millions) January 4, 2021 Life and annuity business On October 1, 2021, the of a derivative and is accounted for on a fair value basis
with periodic changes in fair value reflected in
Assets Company closed the sale of Allstate Life Insurance
earnings. See Note 7 for further details.
Investments $ 4,962 Company of New York (“ALNY”) to Wilton Reassurance
Cash 400 Company for $400 million. On November 1, 2021, the In 2021, the loss on disposition was $4.09 billion,
Premiums and other receivables, net 1,539 Company closed the sale of Allstate Life Insurance after-tax, and reflects purchase price adjustments
Deferred acquisition costs (value of business acquired) 317 Company (“ALIC”) and certain affiliates to entities associated with certain pre-close transactions
managed by Blackstone for total proceeds of $4 billion, specified in the stock purchase agreements, changes
Reinsurance recoverables, net 1,212
including a pre-close dividend of $1.25 billion paid by in statutory capital and surplus prior to the closing
Intangible assets 1,199
ALIC. date and the closing date equity of the sold entities
Other assets 734
determined under GAAP, excluding AOCI derecognized
Goodwill (2) 1,038 In connection with the sale of ALIC and certain
related to the dispositions.
Total assets 11,401 affiliates, the sale agreement includes a provision
related to contingent consideration that may be Beginning in the first quarter of 2021, the assets and
Liabilities earned over a ten-year period with the first potential liabilities of the business were reclassified as held for
Reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense 2,765 payment date commencing on January 1, 2026 and a sale and results are presented as discontinued
Reserve for future policy benefits 186 final potential payment date of January 1, 2035. The operations. This change was applied on a retrospective
Unearned premiums 2,245 contingent consideration is determined annually based basis.
Reinsurance payable 363 on the average ten-year Treasury rate over the
preceding three-year period compared to a designated
Debt (3) 593
Deferred tax liabilities 162
Financial results from discontinued operations
Other liabilities 776 For the years ended
Total liabilities $ 7,090 December 31,
($ in millions) 2021 2020
(1) The amounts reflect allocation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Revenues
(2)$675 million, $20 million and $343 million of goodwill were allocated to the Allstate Protection, Protection Services and Allstate
Life premiums and contract charges $ 1,109 $ 1,350
Health and Benefits segments, respectively, and is non-deductible for income tax purposes. Goodwill is primarily attributable to
expected synergies and future growth opportunities. Net investment income 1,336 1,262
(3)Subsequent to the acquisition, the Company repaid $100 million of 7.625% Subordinated Notes and $72 million of Subordinated Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives 195 269
Debentures on February 3, 2021 and March 15, 2021, respectively. As of December 31, 2022, the Company had principal balance Total revenues 2,640 2,881
remaining of $350 million 6.750% Senior Notes due 2024, with a fair value adjustment of $26 million.
Costs and expenses
Intangible assets (reported in other assets in the Other fair value adjustments included an increase
Life contract benefits 1,315 1,726
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position) consist in reserves of $62 million, a $9 million reduction to
Interest credited to contractholder funds 414 605
of capitalized costs, primarily of the estimated fair investments that were not held at fair value, and a net
Amortization of DAC 87 153
value of distribution and customer relationships, trade increase in current and deferred tax liabilities of
Operating costs and expenses 163 238
names, licenses and technology assets. $153 million.
Restructuring and related charges 31 7
Intangible assets by type Transactions costs (reported in operating costs Total costs and expenses 2,010 2,729
($ in millions) January 4, 2021 and expenses in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations) of $22 million related to the acquisition Amortization of deferred gain on reinsurance 4 4
Distribution and customer
were expensed as incurred in the Corporate and Other
relationships $ 795 Income from discontinued operations before income tax expense 634 156
segment.
Trade names 102
Income tax expense 136 9
Licenses 97 SafeAuto On October 1, 2021, the Company
Technology 205 completed the acquisition of Safe Auto Insurance Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 498 147
Total $ 1,199 Group, Inc. (“SafeAuto”), a non-standard auto insurance
carrier focused on providing state-minimum private- Loss on disposition of operations (4,315) —
Value of business acquired (reported in DAC in the passenger auto insurance direct to consumers with Income tax benefit (224) —
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position) coverage options in 28 states, for $267 million in cash. Loss on disposition of operations, net of tax (4,091) —
recognized in connection with the acquisition of Starting in the fourth quarter of 2021, the Allstate
National General represents the value of future profits Protection segment includes SafeAuto. (Loss) income from discontinued operations, net of tax $ (3,593) $ 147
expected to be earned over the lives of the contracts In connection with the acquisition, the Company
acquired determined using a weighted-average cost of recorded goodwill of $79 million, intangible assets of
capital discount and other relevant assumptions. These $31 million and value of business acquired of $7 million.
costs are amortized over the policy term of the The intangible assets include $25 million and $6 million
contracts in force at the acquisition date, generally related to acquired customer relationships and
over six or twelve months. The value of business licenses, respectively.
acquired asset recognized in connection with the
National General acquisition totaled $317 million, all of On December 17, 2021, subsequent to the
which was expensed in 2021. The most significant acquisition, the Company redeemed the outstanding
portion relates to insurance contracts in the Allstate principal of SafeAuto’s trust preferred securities for
Protection segment. $13 million.
218 2022 Annual Report 219 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Assets and liabilities recognized in the National General acquisition (1) Dispositions rate. The contingent consideration meets the definition
($ in millions) January 4, 2021 Life and annuity business On October 1, 2021, the of a derivative and is accounted for on a fair value basis
with periodic changes in fair value reflected in
Assets Company closed the sale of Allstate Life Insurance
earnings. See Note 7 for further details.
Investments $ 4,962 Company of New York (“ALNY”) to Wilton Reassurance
Cash 400 Company for $400 million. On November 1, 2021, the In 2021, the loss on disposition was $4.09 billion,
Premiums and other receivables, net 1,539 Company closed the sale of Allstate Life Insurance after-tax, and reflects purchase price adjustments
Deferred acquisition costs (value of business acquired) 317 Company (“ALIC”) and certain affiliates to entities associated with certain pre-close transactions
managed by Blackstone for total proceeds of $4 billion, specified in the stock purchase agreements, changes
Reinsurance recoverables, net 1,212
including a pre-close dividend of $1.25 billion paid by in statutory capital and surplus prior to the closing
Intangible assets 1,199
ALIC. date and the closing date equity of the sold entities
Other assets 734
determined under GAAP, excluding AOCI derecognized
Goodwill (2) 1,038 In connection with the sale of ALIC and certain
related to the dispositions.
Total assets 11,401 affiliates, the sale agreement includes a provision
related to contingent consideration that may be Beginning in the first quarter of 2021, the assets and
Liabilities earned over a ten-year period with the first potential liabilities of the business were reclassified as held for
Reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense 2,765 payment date commencing on January 1, 2026 and a sale and results are presented as discontinued
Reserve for future policy benefits 186 final potential payment date of January 1, 2035. The operations. This change was applied on a retrospective
Unearned premiums 2,245 contingent consideration is determined annually based basis.
Reinsurance payable 363 on the average ten-year Treasury rate over the
preceding three-year period compared to a designated
Debt (3) 593
Deferred tax liabilities 162
Financial results from discontinued operations
Other liabilities 776 For the years ended
Total liabilities $ 7,090 December 31,
($ in millions) 2021 2020
(1) The amounts reflect allocation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Revenues
(2)$675 million, $20 million and $343 million of goodwill were allocated to the Allstate Protection, Protection Services and Allstate
Life premiums and contract charges $ 1,109 $ 1,350
Health and Benefits segments, respectively, and is non-deductible for income tax purposes. Goodwill is primarily attributable to
expected synergies and future growth opportunities. Net investment income 1,336 1,262
(3)Subsequent to the acquisition, the Company repaid $100 million of 7.625% Subordinated Notes and $72 million of Subordinated Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives 195 269
Debentures on February 3, 2021 and March 15, 2021, respectively. As of December 31, 2022, the Company had principal balance Total revenues 2,640 2,881
remaining of $350 million 6.750% Senior Notes due 2024, with a fair value adjustment of $26 million.
Costs and expenses
Intangible assets (reported in other assets in the Other fair value adjustments included an increase
Life contract benefits 1,315 1,726
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position) consist in reserves of $62 million, a $9 million reduction to
Interest credited to contractholder funds 414 605
of capitalized costs, primarily of the estimated fair investments that were not held at fair value, and a net
Amortization of DAC 87 153
value of distribution and customer relationships, trade increase in current and deferred tax liabilities of
Operating costs and expenses 163 238
names, licenses and technology assets. $153 million.
Restructuring and related charges 31 7
Intangible assets by type Transactions costs (reported in operating costs Total costs and expenses 2,010 2,729
($ in millions) January 4, 2021 and expenses in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations) of $22 million related to the acquisition Amortization of deferred gain on reinsurance 4 4
Distribution and customer
were expensed as incurred in the Corporate and Other
relationships $ 795 Income from discontinued operations before income tax expense 634 156
segment.
Trade names 102
Income tax expense 136 9
Licenses 97 SafeAuto On October 1, 2021, the Company
Technology 205 completed the acquisition of Safe Auto Insurance Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 498 147
Total $ 1,199 Group, Inc. (“SafeAuto”), a non-standard auto insurance
carrier focused on providing state-minimum private- Loss on disposition of operations (4,315) —
Value of business acquired (reported in DAC in the passenger auto insurance direct to consumers with Income tax benefit (224) —
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position) coverage options in 28 states, for $267 million in cash. Loss on disposition of operations, net of tax (4,091) —
recognized in connection with the acquisition of Starting in the fourth quarter of 2021, the Allstate
National General represents the value of future profits Protection segment includes SafeAuto. (Loss) income from discontinued operations, net of tax $ (3,593) $ 147
expected to be earned over the lives of the contracts In connection with the acquisition, the Company
acquired determined using a weighted-average cost of recorded goodwill of $79 million, intangible assets of
capital discount and other relevant assumptions. These $31 million and value of business acquired of $7 million.
costs are amortized over the policy term of the The intangible assets include $25 million and $6 million
contracts in force at the acquisition date, generally related to acquired customer relationships and
over six or twelve months. The value of business licenses, respectively.
acquired asset recognized in connection with the
National General acquisition totaled $317 million, all of On December 17, 2021, subsequent to the
which was expensed in 2021. The most significant acquisition, the Company redeemed the outstanding
portion relates to insurance contracts in the Allstate principal of SafeAuto’s trust preferred securities for
Protection segment. $13 million.
218 2022 Annual Report 219 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Major classes of assets and liabilities disposed in transactions States relate to consumer product protection plans Measuring segment profit or loss
sold primarily in the European Union and were $258
The measure of segment profit or loss used in
($ in millions) Closing (1) million, $232 million and $188 million in 2022, 2021 and
evaluating performance is underwriting income for the
Assets 2020, respectively.
Allstate Protection and Run-off Property-Liability and
Investments Allstate Health and Benefits offers employer adjusted net income for the Protection Services,
Fixed income securities, at fair value $ 26,425 voluntary benefits, group health and individual health Allstate Health and Benefits and Corporate and Other
Equity securities, at fair value 11 products, including life, accident, critical illness, segments.
Mortgage loans, net 2,662 hospital, short-term disability and other health
Underwriting income is calculated as premiums
Limited partnership interests 1,624 products. Allstate Health and Benefits primarily
earned and other revenue, less claims and claims
operates in the U.S. (all 50 states and D.C.) and Canada.
Short-term, at fair value 643 expenses (“losses”), Shelter-in-Place Payback expense,
For 2022, the top geographic locations for statutory
Other investments, net 690 amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses,
direct accident, health and life insurance premiums
Total investments $ 32,055 amortization or impairment of purchased intangibles
were Florida, Texas, Georgia and Ohio. No other
Cash 1,081 jurisdiction accounted for more than 5% of statutory and restructuring and related charges as determined
Deferred policy acquisitions costs 996 direct accident, health and life insurance premiums. using GAAP.
Reinsurance recoverables, net 1,979 Revenues from external customers generated outside Adjusted net income is net income (loss) applicable
Accrued investment income 240 the United States relate to voluntary accident and to common shareholders, excluding:
Other assets 536 health insurance sold in Canada and were not material.
• Net gains and losses on investments and derivatives
Separate accounts 3,465
Corporate and Other comprises holding company
Total assets $ 40,352 activities and certain non-insurance operations, • Pension and other postretirement remeasurement gains
and losses
including expenses associated with strategic
Liabilities
initiatives. • Business combination expenses and the amortization
Reserve for future policy benefits $ 11,573 or impairment of purchased intangibles
Contractholder funds 15,880 Beginning in the first quarter of 2021, National • Income or loss from discontinued operations
Deferred income taxes 834 General results are included in the following segments:
• Gain or loss on disposition
Other liabilities and accrued expenses 452 • Property and casualty - Allstate Protection
• Adjustments for other significant non-recurring,
Separate accounts 3,465
• Accident and health - Allstate Health and Benefits infrequent or unusual items, when (a) the nature of the
Total liabilities $ 32,204 charge or gain is such that it is reasonably unlikely to
• Technology solutions - Protection Services
recur within two years, or (b) there has been no similar
(1) The Company closed the sales of Allstate Life Insurance Company of New York and Allstate Life Insurance Company and certain charge or gain within the prior two years
Allstate Protection and Run-off Property Liability
affiliates on October 1, 2021 and November 1, 2021, respectively.
segments comprise Property-Liability. The Company • Income tax expense or benefit on reconciling items
Cash flows from discontinued operations does not allocate investment income, net gains and
For the years ended losses on investments and derivatives, or assets to the A reconciliation of these measures to net income
December 31, Allstate Protection and Run-off Property Liability (loss) applicable to common shareholders is provided
($ in millions) 2021 2020 segments. Management reviews assets at the below.
Property-Liability, Protection Services, Allstate Health
Net cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations $ 634 $ 311
and Benefits, and Corporate and Other levels for
Net cash provided by investing activities from discontinued operations 984 330
decision-making purposes.
Note 4 Reportable Segments The accounting policies of the reportable
segments are the same as those described in Note 2.
The Company’s chief operating decision maker Run-off Property-Liability includes property and The effects of intersegment transactions are
reviews financial performance and makes decisions casualty insurance coverage that primarily relates to eliminated in the consolidated results. For segment
about the allocation of resources for the five reportable policies written during the 1960s through the results, services provided by Protection Services to
segments. These segments are described below and mid-1980s. Our exposure to asbestos, environmental Allstate Protection are not eliminated as management
align with the Company’s key product and service and other run-off lines claims arises principally from considers those transactions in assessing the results of
offerings. direct excess commercial insurance, assumed the respective segments.
reinsurance coverage, direct primary commercial
Allstate Protection principally offers private
insurance and other businesses in run-off.
passenger auto and homeowners insurance in the
United States and Canada, with earned premiums Protection Services comprise Allstate Protection
accounting for 85.4% of Allstate’s 2022 consolidated Plans, Allstate Dealer Services, Allstate Roadside, Arity
revenues. Allstate Protection primarily operates in the and Allstate Identity Protection. Protection Services
U.S. (all 50 states and the District of Columbia (“D.C.”)) offer consumer product protection plans, finance and
and Canada. For 2022, the top geographic locations for insurance products (including vehicle service contracts,
statutory direct premiums for the Allstate Protection guaranteed asset protection waivers, road hazard tire
segment were Texas, California, New York and Florida. and wheel and paintless dent repair protection),
No other jurisdiction accounted for more than 5% of roadside assistance, device and mobile data collection
statutory direct premiums for Allstate Protection. services and analytic solutions using automotive
Revenues from external customers generated outside telematics information and identity protection.
the United States were $1.94 billion, $1.86 billion and Protection Services primarily operates in the U.S. and
$1.57 billion in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Canada, with Allstate Protection Plans also offering
services in Europe, Australia and Asia. Revenues from
external customers generated outside the United
220 2022 Annual Report 221 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Major classes of assets and liabilities disposed in transactions States relate to consumer product protection plans Measuring segment profit or loss
sold primarily in the European Union and were $258
The measure of segment profit or loss used in
($ in millions) Closing (1) million, $232 million and $188 million in 2022, 2021 and
evaluating performance is underwriting income for the
Assets 2020, respectively.
Allstate Protection and Run-off Property-Liability and
Investments Allstate Health and Benefits offers employer adjusted net income for the Protection Services,
Fixed income securities, at fair value $ 26,425 voluntary benefits, group health and individual health Allstate Health and Benefits and Corporate and Other
Equity securities, at fair value 11 products, including life, accident, critical illness, segments.
Mortgage loans, net 2,662 hospital, short-term disability and other health
Underwriting income is calculated as premiums
Limited partnership interests 1,624 products. Allstate Health and Benefits primarily
earned and other revenue, less claims and claims
operates in the U.S. (all 50 states and D.C.) and Canada.
Short-term, at fair value 643 expenses (“losses”), Shelter-in-Place Payback expense,
For 2022, the top geographic locations for statutory
Other investments, net 690 amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses,
direct accident, health and life insurance premiums
Total investments $ 32,055 amortization or impairment of purchased intangibles
were Florida, Texas, Georgia and Ohio. No other
Cash 1,081 jurisdiction accounted for more than 5% of statutory and restructuring and related charges as determined
Deferred policy acquisitions costs 996 direct accident, health and life insurance premiums. using GAAP.
Reinsurance recoverables, net 1,979 Revenues from external customers generated outside Adjusted net income is net income (loss) applicable
Accrued investment income 240 the United States relate to voluntary accident and to common shareholders, excluding:
Other assets 536 health insurance sold in Canada and were not material.
• Net gains and losses on investments and derivatives
Separate accounts 3,465
Corporate and Other comprises holding company
Total assets $ 40,352 activities and certain non-insurance operations, • Pension and other postretirement remeasurement gains
and losses
including expenses associated with strategic
Liabilities
initiatives. • Business combination expenses and the amortization
Reserve for future policy benefits $ 11,573 or impairment of purchased intangibles
Contractholder funds 15,880 Beginning in the first quarter of 2021, National • Income or loss from discontinued operations
Deferred income taxes 834 General results are included in the following segments:
• Gain or loss on disposition
Other liabilities and accrued expenses 452 • Property and casualty - Allstate Protection
• Adjustments for other significant non-recurring,
Separate accounts 3,465
• Accident and health - Allstate Health and Benefits infrequent or unusual items, when (a) the nature of the
Total liabilities $ 32,204 charge or gain is such that it is reasonably unlikely to
• Technology solutions - Protection Services
recur within two years, or (b) there has been no similar
(1) The Company closed the sales of Allstate Life Insurance Company of New York and Allstate Life Insurance Company and certain charge or gain within the prior two years
Allstate Protection and Run-off Property Liability
affiliates on October 1, 2021 and November 1, 2021, respectively.
segments comprise Property-Liability. The Company • Income tax expense or benefit on reconciling items
Cash flows from discontinued operations does not allocate investment income, net gains and
For the years ended losses on investments and derivatives, or assets to the A reconciliation of these measures to net income
December 31, Allstate Protection and Run-off Property Liability (loss) applicable to common shareholders is provided
($ in millions) 2021 2020 segments. Management reviews assets at the below.
Property-Liability, Protection Services, Allstate Health
Net cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations $ 634 $ 311
and Benefits, and Corporate and Other levels for
Net cash provided by investing activities from discontinued operations 984 330
decision-making purposes.
Note 4 Reportable Segments The accounting policies of the reportable
segments are the same as those described in Note 2.
The Company’s chief operating decision maker Run-off Property-Liability includes property and The effects of intersegment transactions are
reviews financial performance and makes decisions casualty insurance coverage that primarily relates to eliminated in the consolidated results. For segment
about the allocation of resources for the five reportable policies written during the 1960s through the results, services provided by Protection Services to
segments. These segments are described below and mid-1980s. Our exposure to asbestos, environmental Allstate Protection are not eliminated as management
align with the Company’s key product and service and other run-off lines claims arises principally from considers those transactions in assessing the results of
offerings. direct excess commercial insurance, assumed the respective segments.
reinsurance coverage, direct primary commercial
Allstate Protection principally offers private
insurance and other businesses in run-off.
passenger auto and homeowners insurance in the
United States and Canada, with earned premiums Protection Services comprise Allstate Protection
accounting for 85.4% of Allstate’s 2022 consolidated Plans, Allstate Dealer Services, Allstate Roadside, Arity
revenues. Allstate Protection primarily operates in the and Allstate Identity Protection. Protection Services
U.S. (all 50 states and the District of Columbia (“D.C.”)) offer consumer product protection plans, finance and
and Canada. For 2022, the top geographic locations for insurance products (including vehicle service contracts,
statutory direct premiums for the Allstate Protection guaranteed asset protection waivers, road hazard tire
segment were Texas, California, New York and Florida. and wheel and paintless dent repair protection),
No other jurisdiction accounted for more than 5% of roadside assistance, device and mobile data collection
statutory direct premiums for Allstate Protection. services and analytic solutions using automotive
Revenues from external customers generated outside telematics information and identity protection.
the United States were $1.94 billion, $1.86 billion and Protection Services primarily operates in the U.S. and
$1.57 billion in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Canada, with Allstate Protection Plans also offering
services in Europe, Australia and Asia. Revenues from
external customers generated outside the United
220 2022 Annual Report 221 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Reportable segments financial performance Reportable segments revenue information
For the years ended December 31, For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Underwriting income (loss) by segment Property-Liability
Allstate Protection $ (2,782) $ 1,785 $ 4,569 Insurance premiums
Run-off Property-Liability (129) (120) (144) Auto $ 29,715 $ 27,623 $ 24,640
Total Property-Liability (2,911) 1,665 4,425 Homeowners 10,912 9,927 8,254
Other personal lines 2,159 2,077 1,919
Adjusted net income (loss) by segment, after-tax
Commercial lines 1,123 827 767
Protection Services 169 179 153
Allstate Protection 43,909 40,454 35,580
Allstate Health and Benefits 222 208 96
Run-off Property-Liability — — —
Corporate and Other (422) (433) (428)
Total Property-Liability insurance premiums 43,909 40,454 35,580
Reconciling items Other revenue 1,416 1,437 857
Property-Liability net investment income 2,190 3,118 1,421 Net investment income 2,190 3,118 1,421
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives (1,072) 1,084 1,087 Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives (877) 1,021 990
Pension and other postretirement remeasurement gains (losses) (116) 644 51 Total Property-Liability 46,638 46,030 38,848
Curtailment gains (losses) — — 8
Protection Services
Business combination expenses and amortization of purchased intangibles (1) (113) (157) (106)
Protection Plans 1,307 1,132 909
Business combination fair value adjustment — 6 —
Roadside assistance 202 192 188
Gain (loss) on disposition (2) 89 — —
Finance and insurance products 486 440 396
Income tax benefit (expense) on reconciling items and other 496 (1,270) (1,393)
Intersegment premiums and service fees (1) 149 175 147
Total reconciling items 1,474 3,425 1,068
Other revenue 347 354 208
Income (loss) from discontinued operations — (3,612) 157 Net investment income 48 43 44
Income tax benefit (expense) from discontinued operations — 19 (10) Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives (52) 25 30
Total from discontinued operations $ — $ (3,593) $ 147 Total Protection Services 2,487 2,361 1,922
Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (3) (52) (34) — Allstate Health and Benefits
Net (loss) income applicable to common shareholders $ (1,416) $ 1,485 $ 5,461 Employer voluntary benefits 1,036 1,031 1,094
Group health 385 350 —
(1) Excludes amortization or impairment of purchased intangibles in Property-Liability, which is included above in underwriting
Individual health 412 440 —
income.
Other revenue 402 359 —
(2)Includes $83 million related to the gain on sale of headquarters in the fourth quarter of 2022 reported as other revenue in
Net investment income 69 74 78
Corporate and Other segment.
(3)Reflects net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest in Property-Liability. Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives (44) 7 8
Total Allstate Health and Benefits 2,260 2,261 1,180
Corporate and Other
Other revenue 179 22 —
Net investment income 96 58 47
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives (99) 31 59
Total Corporate and Other 176 111 106
Intersegment eliminations (1) (149) (175) (147)
Consolidated revenues $ 51,412 $ 50,588 $ 41,909
(1) Intersegment insurance premiums and service fees are primarily related to Arity and Allstate Roadside and are eliminated in the
consolidated financial statements.
222 2022 Annual Report 223 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Reportable segments financial performance Reportable segments revenue information
For the years ended December 31, For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Underwriting income (loss) by segment Property-Liability
Allstate Protection $ (2,782) $ 1,785 $ 4,569 Insurance premiums
Run-off Property-Liability (129) (120) (144) Auto $ 29,715 $ 27,623 $ 24,640
Total Property-Liability (2,911) 1,665 4,425 Homeowners 10,912 9,927 8,254
Other personal lines 2,159 2,077 1,919
Adjusted net income (loss) by segment, after-tax
Commercial lines 1,123 827 767
Protection Services 169 179 153
Allstate Protection 43,909 40,454 35,580
Allstate Health and Benefits 222 208 96
Run-off Property-Liability — — —
Corporate and Other (422) (433) (428)
Total Property-Liability insurance premiums 43,909 40,454 35,580
Reconciling items Other revenue 1,416 1,437 857
Property-Liability net investment income 2,190 3,118 1,421 Net investment income 2,190 3,118 1,421
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives (1,072) 1,084 1,087 Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives (877) 1,021 990
Pension and other postretirement remeasurement gains (losses) (116) 644 51 Total Property-Liability 46,638 46,030 38,848
Curtailment gains (losses) — — 8
Protection Services
Business combination expenses and amortization of purchased intangibles (1) (113) (157) (106)
Protection Plans 1,307 1,132 909
Business combination fair value adjustment — 6 —
Roadside assistance 202 192 188
Gain (loss) on disposition (2) 89 — —
Finance and insurance products 486 440 396
Income tax benefit (expense) on reconciling items and other 496 (1,270) (1,393)
Intersegment premiums and service fees (1) 149 175 147
Total reconciling items 1,474 3,425 1,068
Other revenue 347 354 208
Income (loss) from discontinued operations — (3,612) 157 Net investment income 48 43 44
Income tax benefit (expense) from discontinued operations — 19 (10) Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives (52) 25 30
Total from discontinued operations $ — $ (3,593) $ 147 Total Protection Services 2,487 2,361 1,922
Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (3) (52) (34) — Allstate Health and Benefits
Net (loss) income applicable to common shareholders $ (1,416) $ 1,485 $ 5,461 Employer voluntary benefits 1,036 1,031 1,094
Group health 385 350 —
(1) Excludes amortization or impairment of purchased intangibles in Property-Liability, which is included above in underwriting
Individual health 412 440 —
income.
Other revenue 402 359 —
(2)Includes $83 million related to the gain on sale of headquarters in the fourth quarter of 2022 reported as other revenue in
Net investment income 69 74 78
Corporate and Other segment.
(3)Reflects net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest in Property-Liability. Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives (44) 7 8
Total Allstate Health and Benefits 2,260 2,261 1,180
Corporate and Other
Other revenue 179 22 —
Net investment income 96 58 47
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives (99) 31 59
Total Corporate and Other 176 111 106
Intersegment eliminations (1) (149) (175) (147)
Consolidated revenues $ 51,412 $ 50,588 $ 41,909
(1) Intersegment insurance premiums and service fees are primarily related to Arity and Allstate Roadside and are eliminated in the
consolidated financial statements.
222 2022 Annual Report 223 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Additional significant financial performance data Amortized cost, gross unrealized gains (losses) and fair value for fixed income securities
For the years ended December 31, Amortized Gross unrealized Fair
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 ($ in millions) cost, net Gains Losses value
Amortization of DAC December 31, 2022
Property-Liability $ 5,570 $ 5,313 $ 4,642 U.S. government and agencies $ 8,123 $ 6 $ (231) $ 7,898
Protection Services 928 795 658 Municipal 6,500 36 (326) 6,210
Allstate Health and Benefits 146 144 177 Corporate 28,562 46 (2,345) 26,263
Consolidated $ 6,644 $ 6,252 $ 5,477 Foreign government 997 — (40) 957
ABS 1,188 4 (35) 1,157
Income tax expense (benefit)
Total fixed income securities $ 45,370 $ 92 $ (2,977) $ 42,485
Property-Liability $ (427) $ 1,151 $ 1,382
Protection Services 5 39 26
December 31, 2021
Allstate Health and Benefits 39 50 28
U.S. government and agencies $ 6,287 $ 12 $ (26) $ 6,273
Corporate and Other (111) 49 (63)
Municipal 6,130 279 (16) 6,393
Consolidated $ (494) $ 1,289 $ 1,373
Corporate 26,834 688 (192) 27,330
Foreign government 982 9 (6) 985
Interest expense is primarily incurred in the Corporate and Other segment. Capital expenditures for long-lived
assets are generally made in Property-Liability as the Company does not allocate assets to the Allstate Protection and ABS 1,143 14 (2) 1,155
Run-off Property-Liability segments. A portion of these long-lived assets are used by entities included in the Protection Total fixed income securities $ 41,376 $ 1,002 $ (242) $ 42,136
Services, Allstate Health and Benefits and Corporate and Other segments and, accordingly, are charged to expenses in
proportion to their use. Scheduled maturities for fixed income securities
As of December 31, 2022 As of December 31, 2021
Reportable segment total assets, investments and deferred policy acquisition costs
Amortized Fair Amortized Fair
As of December 31,
($ in millions) cost, net value cost, net value
($ in millions) 2022 2021
Due in one year or less $ 2,870 $ 2,836 $ 1,105 $ 1,111
Assets
Due after one year through five years 26,546 25,217 21,039 21,291
Property-Liability $ 82,744 $ 84,846
Due after five years through ten years 11,035 9,870 13,808 14,079
Protection Services 6,922 6,909
Due after ten years 3,731 3,405 4,281 4,500
Allstate Health and Benefits 3,720 4,015
44,182 41,328 40,233 40,981
Corporate and Other 4,571 3,670
ABS 1,188 1,157 1,143 1,155
Consolidated $ 97,957 $ 99,440
Total $ 45,370 $ 42,485 $ 41,376 $ 42,136
Investments (1)
Property-Liability $ 54,011 $ 57,258 Actual maturities may differ from those scheduled as a result of calls and make-whole payments by the issuers.
ABS is shown separately because of potential prepayment of principal prior to contractual maturity dates.
Protection Services 1,917 1,890
Allstate Health and Benefits 1,872 2,191 Net investment income
Corporate and Other 4,029 3,362 For the years ended December 31,
Consolidated $ 61,829 $ 64,701 ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Fixed income securities $ 1,255 $ 1,148 $ 1,232
Deferred policy acquisition costs
Equity securities 132 100 78
Property-Liability $ 2,146 $ 1,951
Mortgage loans 33 43 34
Protection Services 2,768 2,294
Limited partnership interests 985 1,973 238
Allstate Health and Benefits 504 477
Short-term investments 82 5 17
Consolidated $ 5,418 $ 4,722
Other investments 162 195 124
(1) The balances reflect the elimination of related party investments between segments. Investment income, before expense 2,649 3,464 1,723
Investment expense (246) (171) (133)
Note 5 Investments
Net investment income $ 2,403 $ 3,293 $ 1,590
Portfolio composition
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives by asset type
As of December 31,
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2022 2021
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Fixed income securities, at fair value $ 42,485 $ 42,136
Fixed income securities $ (875) $ 425 $ 925
Equity securities, at fair value 4,567 7,061
Equity securities (900) 520 117
Mortgage loans, net 762 821
Mortgage loans (1) 20 (1)
Limited partnership interests 8,114 8,018
Limited partnership interests (191) (52) (14)
Short-term investments, at fair value 4,173 4,009
Derivatives 874 49 49
Other investments, net 1,728 2,656
Other investments 21 122 11
Total $ 61,829 $ 64,701
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives $ (1,072) $ 1,084 $ 1,087
224 2022 Annual Report 225 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Additional significant financial performance data Amortized cost, gross unrealized gains (losses) and fair value for fixed income securities
For the years ended December 31, Amortized Gross unrealized Fair
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 ($ in millions) cost, net Gains Losses value
Amortization of DAC December 31, 2022
Property-Liability $ 5,570 $ 5,313 $ 4,642 U.S. government and agencies $ 8,123 $ 6 $ (231) $ 7,898
Protection Services 928 795 658 Municipal 6,500 36 (326) 6,210
Allstate Health and Benefits 146 144 177 Corporate 28,562 46 (2,345) 26,263
Consolidated $ 6,644 $ 6,252 $ 5,477 Foreign government 997 — (40) 957
ABS 1,188 4 (35) 1,157
Income tax expense (benefit)
Total fixed income securities $ 45,370 $ 92 $ (2,977) $ 42,485
Property-Liability $ (427) $ 1,151 $ 1,382
Protection Services 5 39 26
December 31, 2021
Allstate Health and Benefits 39 50 28
U.S. government and agencies $ 6,287 $ 12 $ (26) $ 6,273
Corporate and Other (111) 49 (63)
Municipal 6,130 279 (16) 6,393
Consolidated $ (494) $ 1,289 $ 1,373
Corporate 26,834 688 (192) 27,330
Foreign government 982 9 (6) 985
Interest expense is primarily incurred in the Corporate and Other segment. Capital expenditures for long-lived
assets are generally made in Property-Liability as the Company does not allocate assets to the Allstate Protection and ABS 1,143 14 (2) 1,155
Run-off Property-Liability segments. A portion of these long-lived assets are used by entities included in the Protection Total fixed income securities $ 41,376 $ 1,002 $ (242) $ 42,136
Services, Allstate Health and Benefits and Corporate and Other segments and, accordingly, are charged to expenses in
proportion to their use. Scheduled maturities for fixed income securities
As of December 31, 2022 As of December 31, 2021
Reportable segment total assets, investments and deferred policy acquisition costs
Amortized Fair Amortized Fair
As of December 31,
($ in millions) cost, net value cost, net value
($ in millions) 2022 2021
Due in one year or less $ 2,870 $ 2,836 $ 1,105 $ 1,111
Assets
Due after one year through five years 26,546 25,217 21,039 21,291
Property-Liability $ 82,744 $ 84,846
Due after five years through ten years 11,035 9,870 13,808 14,079
Protection Services 6,922 6,909
Due after ten years 3,731 3,405 4,281 4,500
Allstate Health and Benefits 3,720 4,015
44,182 41,328 40,233 40,981
Corporate and Other 4,571 3,670
ABS 1,188 1,157 1,143 1,155
Consolidated $ 97,957 $ 99,440
Total $ 45,370 $ 42,485 $ 41,376 $ 42,136
Investments (1)
Property-Liability $ 54,011 $ 57,258 Actual maturities may differ from those scheduled as a result of calls and make-whole payments by the issuers.
ABS is shown separately because of potential prepayment of principal prior to contractual maturity dates.
Protection Services 1,917 1,890
Allstate Health and Benefits 1,872 2,191 Net investment income
Corporate and Other 4,029 3,362 For the years ended December 31,
Consolidated $ 61,829 $ 64,701 ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Fixed income securities $ 1,255 $ 1,148 $ 1,232
Deferred policy acquisition costs
Equity securities 132 100 78
Property-Liability $ 2,146 $ 1,951
Mortgage loans 33 43 34
Protection Services 2,768 2,294
Limited partnership interests 985 1,973 238
Allstate Health and Benefits 504 477
Short-term investments 82 5 17
Consolidated $ 5,418 $ 4,722
Other investments 162 195 124
(1) The balances reflect the elimination of related party investments between segments. Investment income, before expense 2,649 3,464 1,723
Investment expense (246) (171) (133)
Note 5 Investments
Net investment income $ 2,403 $ 3,293 $ 1,590
Portfolio composition
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives by asset type
As of December 31,
For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) 2022 2021
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Fixed income securities, at fair value $ 42,485 $ 42,136
Fixed income securities $ (875) $ 425 $ 925
Equity securities, at fair value 4,567 7,061
Equity securities (900) 520 117
Mortgage loans, net 762 821
Mortgage loans (1) 20 (1)
Limited partnership interests 8,114 8,018
Limited partnership interests (191) (52) (14)
Short-term investments, at fair value 4,173 4,009
Derivatives 874 49 49
Other investments, net 1,728 2,656
Other investments 21 122 11
Total $ 61,829 $ 64,701
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives $ (1,072) $ 1,084 $ 1,087
224 2022 Annual Report 225 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives by transaction type Unrealized net capital gains and losses included in AOCI
For the years ended December 31, ($ in millions) Fair Gross unrealized Unrealized net
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 December 31, 2022 value Gains Losses gains (losses)
Sales $ (832) $ 578 $ 974 Fixed income securities $ 42,485 $ 92 $ (2,977) $ (2,885)
Credit losses (54) (42) (32) Short-term investments 4,173 — (1) (1)
Valuation change of equity investments (1) (1,060) 499 96 Derivative instruments — — (3) (3)
Valuation change and settlements of derivatives 874 49 49 Limited partnership interests (1) 2
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives $ (1,072) $ 1,084 $ 1,087 Unrealized net capital gains and losses, pre-tax (2,887)
Other unrealized net capital gains and losses, pre-tax (2) 26
(1) Includes valuation change of equity securities and certain limited partnership interests where the underlying assets are
Deferred income taxes 608
predominately public equity securities.
Unrealized net capital gains and losses, after-tax $ (2,253)
Gross realized gains (losses) on sales of fixed income securities
For the years ended December 31, December 31, 2021
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Fixed income securities $ 42,136 $ 1,002 $ (242) $ 760
Gross realized gains $ 136 $ 587 $ 1,105 Short-term investments 4,009 — — —
Gross realized losses (1,004) (158) (177) Derivative instruments — — (3) (3)
Limited partnership interests (1)
Net appreciation (decline) recognized in net income for assets that are still held
Unrealized net capital gains and losses, pre-tax 756
For the years ended December 31, Other unrealized net capital gains and losses, pre-tax (2) 5
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Deferred income taxes (163)
Equity securities $ (466) $ 377 $ 247
Unrealized net capital gains and losses, after-tax $ 598
Limited partnership interests carried at fair value (5) 435 150
Total $ (471) $ 812 $ 397 (1) Unrealized net capital gains and losses for limited partnership interests represent the Company’s share of EMA limited
partnerships’ OCI. Fair value and gross unrealized gains and losses are not applicable.
Credit losses recognized in net income (2)Includes amounts recognized for the reclassification of unrealized gains and losses related to noncontrolling interest and the
amount by which the amortization of DAC would increase or decrease if the unrealized gains or losses in the respective product
For the years ended December 31,
portfolios were realized.
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Assets Change in unrealized net capital gains (losses)
Fixed income securities: For the years ended December 31,
Corporate $ (6) $ (5) $ (1) ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
ABS (1) 1 (2) Fixed income securities $ (3,645) $ (1,771) $ 2,152
Total fixed income securities (7) (4) (3) Short-term investments (1) — —
Mortgage loans (1) 18 (1) Derivative instruments — — —
Limited partnership interests (4) (34) (6) Limited partnerships interests 3 — —
Other investments Investments classified as held for sale — (2,369) —
Bank loans (26) (22) (23) Total (3,643) (4,140) 2,152
Real estate (16) — — Other unrealized net capital gains and losses, pre-tax 21 865 (510)
Total credit losses by asset type $ (54) $ (42) $ (33) Deferred income taxes 771 693 (349)
(Decrease) increase in unrealized net capital gains and losses, after-tax $ (2,851) $ (2,582) $ 1,293
Liabilities
Commitments to fund commercial mortgage loans and bank loans — — 1
Total $ (54) $ (42) $ (32)
226 2022 Annual Report 227 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives by transaction type Unrealized net capital gains and losses included in AOCI
For the years ended December 31, ($ in millions) Fair Gross unrealized Unrealized net
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 December 31, 2022 value Gains Losses gains (losses)
Sales $ (832) $ 578 $ 974 Fixed income securities $ 42,485 $ 92 $ (2,977) $ (2,885)
Credit losses (54) (42) (32) Short-term investments 4,173 — (1) (1)
Valuation change of equity investments (1) (1,060) 499 96 Derivative instruments — — (3) (3)
Valuation change and settlements of derivatives 874 49 49 Limited partnership interests (1) 2
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives $ (1,072) $ 1,084 $ 1,087 Unrealized net capital gains and losses, pre-tax (2,887)
Other unrealized net capital gains and losses, pre-tax (2) 26
(1) Includes valuation change of equity securities and certain limited partnership interests where the underlying assets are
Deferred income taxes 608
predominately public equity securities.
Unrealized net capital gains and losses, after-tax $ (2,253)
Gross realized gains (losses) on sales of fixed income securities
For the years ended December 31, December 31, 2021
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Fixed income securities $ 42,136 $ 1,002 $ (242) $ 760
Gross realized gains $ 136 $ 587 $ 1,105 Short-term investments 4,009 — — —
Gross realized losses (1,004) (158) (177) Derivative instruments — — (3) (3)
Limited partnership interests (1)
Net appreciation (decline) recognized in net income for assets that are still held
Unrealized net capital gains and losses, pre-tax 756
For the years ended December 31, Other unrealized net capital gains and losses, pre-tax (2) 5
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Deferred income taxes (163)
Equity securities $ (466) $ 377 $ 247
Unrealized net capital gains and losses, after-tax $ 598
Limited partnership interests carried at fair value (5) 435 150
Total $ (471) $ 812 $ 397 (1) Unrealized net capital gains and losses for limited partnership interests represent the Company’s share of EMA limited
partnerships’ OCI. Fair value and gross unrealized gains and losses are not applicable.
Credit losses recognized in net income (2)Includes amounts recognized for the reclassification of unrealized gains and losses related to noncontrolling interest and the
amount by which the amortization of DAC would increase or decrease if the unrealized gains or losses in the respective product
For the years ended December 31,
portfolios were realized.
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Assets Change in unrealized net capital gains (losses)
Fixed income securities: For the years ended December 31,
Corporate $ (6) $ (5) $ (1) ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
ABS (1) 1 (2) Fixed income securities $ (3,645) $ (1,771) $ 2,152
Total fixed income securities (7) (4) (3) Short-term investments (1) — —
Mortgage loans (1) 18 (1) Derivative instruments — — —
Limited partnership interests (4) (34) (6) Limited partnerships interests 3 — —
Other investments Investments classified as held for sale — (2,369) —
Bank loans (26) (22) (23) Total (3,643) (4,140) 2,152
Real estate (16) — — Other unrealized net capital gains and losses, pre-tax 21 865 (510)
Total credit losses by asset type $ (54) $ (42) $ (33) Deferred income taxes 771 693 (349)
(Decrease) increase in unrealized net capital gains and losses, after-tax $ (2,851) $ (2,582) $ 1,293
Liabilities
Commitments to fund commercial mortgage loans and bank loans — — 1
Total $ (54) $ (42) $ (32)
226 2022 Annual Report 227 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Mortgage loans The Company’s mortgage loans are commercial mortgage loans collateralized by a variety of Municipal bonds The Company maintains a diversified portfolio of municipal bonds, including tax exempt and taxable
commercial real estate property types located across the United States and totaled $762 million and $821 million, net securities, which totaled $6.21 billion and $6.39 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The balance as
of credit loss allowance, as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Substantially all of the commercial mortgage of December 31, 2022 includes $4.64 billion of tax exempt securities. The municipal bond portfolio includes general
loans are non-recourse to the borrower. obligations of state and local issuers and revenue bonds (including pre-refunded bonds, which are bonds for which an
irrevocable trust has been established to fund the remaining payments of principal and interest).
Principal geographic distribution of commercial real estate exceeding 5% of the mortgage loans portfolio
As of December 31, Principal geographic distribution of municipal bond issuers exceeding 5% of the portfolio
(% of mortgage loan portfolio carrying value) 2022 2021 As of December 31,
California 24.9 % 19.6 % (% of municipal bond portfolio carrying value) 2022 2021
Texas 16.3 20.4 Texas 9.6 % 8.7 %
Washington 7.3 4.3 California 8.5 11.8
Florida 6.4 6.0 New York 6.7 5.1
Tennessee 6.1 5.7 Illinois 5.6 4.1
Ohio 5.6 5.3 Pennsylvania 5.4 5.4
Massachusetts 2.6 5.7 Florida 5.0 4.2
Illinois 2.4 6.7
Short-term investments Short-term investments, including money market funds, commercial paper, U.S. Treasury
bills and other short-term investments, are carried at fair value. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the fair value of
Types of properties collateralizing the mortgage loan portfolio
short-term investments totaled $4.17 billion and $4.01 billion, respectively.
As of December 31,
(% of mortgage loan portfolio carrying value) 2022 2021 Other investments Other investments primarily consist of bank loans, real estate, policy loans and derivatives. Bank
Apartment complex 30.2 % 35.3 % loans are primarily senior secured corporate loans and are carried at amortized cost, net. Policy loans are carried at
Retail 27.4 23.8 unpaid principal balances. Real estate is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. Derivatives are carried at fair
value.
Office 17.5 18.5
Warehouse 16.0 11.0 Other investments by asset type
Other 8.9 11.4 As of December 31,
Total 100.0 % 100.0 % ($ in millions) 2022 2021
Bank loans, net $ 686 $ 1,574
Contractual maturities of the mortgage loan portfolio Real estate 813 809
As of December 31, 2022
Policy loans 120 148
Number of Amortized Derivatives 1 12
($ in millions) loans cost, net Percent
Other 108 113
2023 6 $ 61 8.0 %
Total $ 1,728 $ 2,656
2024 5 89 11.7
2025 7 85 11.2 Concentration of credit risk As of December 31, 2022, Other investment information Included in fixed
2026 5 100 13.1 the Company is not exposed to any credit income securities are below investment grade assets
Thereafter 28 427 56.0 concentration risk of a single issuer and its affiliates totaling $4.10 billion and $7.50 billion as of
Total 51 $ 762 100.0 % greater than 10% of the Company’s shareholders’ December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
equity, other than the U.S. government and its
As of December 31, 2022, fixed income securities
Limited partnership interests include interests in private equity funds, real estate funds and other funds. Principal agencies.
and short-term investments with a carrying value of
factors influencing carrying value appreciation or decline include operating performance, comparable public company
Securities loaned The Company’s business activities $198 million were on deposit with regulatory authorities
earnings multiples, capitalization rates and the economic environment. For equity method limited partnerships, the
include securities lending programs with third parties, as required by law.
Company recognizes an impairment loss when evidence demonstrates that the loss is other than temporary. Evidence
mostly large banks. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021,
of a loss in value that is other than temporary may include the absence of an ability to recover the carrying amount of As of December 31, 2022, the carrying value of
fixed income and equity securities with a carrying value
the investment or the inability of the investee to sustain a level of earnings that would justify the carrying amount of fixed income securities and other investments that
of $1.93 billion and $1.38 billion, respectively, were on
the investment. Changes in fair value limited partnerships are recorded through net investment income and therefore were non-income producing was $66 million.
loan under these agreements. Interest income on
are not tested for impairment.
collateral, net of fees, was $6 million, $1 million and $2
million in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
Carrying value for limited partnership interests
As of December 31, 2022 As of December 31, 2021
($ in millions) EMA Fair Value Total EMA Fair Value Total
Private equity $ 5,372 $ 1,217 $ 6,589 $ 4,905 $ 1,434 $ 6,339
Real estate 1,013 29 1,042 823 97 920
Other (1) 483 — 483 759 — 759
Total $ 6,868 $ 1,246 $ 8,114 $ 6,487 $ 1,531 $ 8,018
(1) Other consists of certain limited partnership interests where the underlying assets are predominately public equity and debt
securities.
228 2022 Annual Report 229 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Mortgage loans The Company’s mortgage loans are commercial mortgage loans collateralized by a variety of Municipal bonds The Company maintains a diversified portfolio of municipal bonds, including tax exempt and taxable
commercial real estate property types located across the United States and totaled $762 million and $821 million, net securities, which totaled $6.21 billion and $6.39 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The balance as
of credit loss allowance, as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Substantially all of the commercial mortgage of December 31, 2022 includes $4.64 billion of tax exempt securities. The municipal bond portfolio includes general
loans are non-recourse to the borrower. obligations of state and local issuers and revenue bonds (including pre-refunded bonds, which are bonds for which an
irrevocable trust has been established to fund the remaining payments of principal and interest).
Principal geographic distribution of commercial real estate exceeding 5% of the mortgage loans portfolio
As of December 31, Principal geographic distribution of municipal bond issuers exceeding 5% of the portfolio
(% of mortgage loan portfolio carrying value) 2022 2021 As of December 31,
California 24.9 % 19.6 % (% of municipal bond portfolio carrying value) 2022 2021
Texas 16.3 20.4 Texas 9.6 % 8.7 %
Washington 7.3 4.3 California 8.5 11.8
Florida 6.4 6.0 New York 6.7 5.1
Tennessee 6.1 5.7 Illinois 5.6 4.1
Ohio 5.6 5.3 Pennsylvania 5.4 5.4
Massachusetts 2.6 5.7 Florida 5.0 4.2
Illinois 2.4 6.7
Short-term investments Short-term investments, including money market funds, commercial paper, U.S. Treasury
bills and other short-term investments, are carried at fair value. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the fair value of
Types of properties collateralizing the mortgage loan portfolio
short-term investments totaled $4.17 billion and $4.01 billion, respectively.
As of December 31,
(% of mortgage loan portfolio carrying value) 2022 2021 Other investments Other investments primarily consist of bank loans, real estate, policy loans and derivatives. Bank
Apartment complex 30.2 % 35.3 % loans are primarily senior secured corporate loans and are carried at amortized cost, net. Policy loans are carried at
Retail 27.4 23.8 unpaid principal balances. Real estate is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. Derivatives are carried at fair
value.
Office 17.5 18.5
Warehouse 16.0 11.0 Other investments by asset type
Other 8.9 11.4 As of December 31,
Total 100.0 % 100.0 % ($ in millions) 2022 2021
Bank loans, net $ 686 $ 1,574
Contractual maturities of the mortgage loan portfolio Real estate 813 809
As of December 31, 2022
Policy loans 120 148
Number of Amortized Derivatives 1 12
($ in millions) loans cost, net Percent
Other 108 113
2023 6 $ 61 8.0 %
Total $ 1,728 $ 2,656
2024 5 89 11.7
2025 7 85 11.2 Concentration of credit risk As of December 31, 2022, Other investment information Included in fixed
2026 5 100 13.1 the Company is not exposed to any credit income securities are below investment grade assets
Thereafter 28 427 56.0 concentration risk of a single issuer and its affiliates totaling $4.10 billion and $7.50 billion as of
Total 51 $ 762 100.0 % greater than 10% of the Company’s shareholders’ December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
equity, other than the U.S. government and its
As of December 31, 2022, fixed income securities
Limited partnership interests include interests in private equity funds, real estate funds and other funds. Principal agencies.
and short-term investments with a carrying value of
factors influencing carrying value appreciation or decline include operating performance, comparable public company
Securities loaned The Company’s business activities $198 million were on deposit with regulatory authorities
earnings multiples, capitalization rates and the economic environment. For equity method limited partnerships, the
include securities lending programs with third parties, as required by law.
Company recognizes an impairment loss when evidence demonstrates that the loss is other than temporary. Evidence
mostly large banks. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021,
of a loss in value that is other than temporary may include the absence of an ability to recover the carrying amount of As of December 31, 2022, the carrying value of
fixed income and equity securities with a carrying value
the investment or the inability of the investee to sustain a level of earnings that would justify the carrying amount of fixed income securities and other investments that
of $1.93 billion and $1.38 billion, respectively, were on
the investment. Changes in fair value limited partnerships are recorded through net investment income and therefore were non-income producing was $66 million.
loan under these agreements. Interest income on
are not tested for impairment.
collateral, net of fees, was $6 million, $1 million and $2
million in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
Carrying value for limited partnership interests
As of December 31, 2022 As of December 31, 2021
($ in millions) EMA Fair Value Total EMA Fair Value Total
Private equity $ 5,372 $ 1,217 $ 6,589 $ 4,905 $ 1,434 $ 6,339
Real estate 1,013 29 1,042 823 97 920
Other (1) 483 — 483 759 — 759
Total $ 6,868 $ 1,246 $ 8,114 $ 6,487 $ 1,531 $ 8,018
(1) Other consists of certain limited partnership interests where the underlying assets are predominately public equity and debt
securities.
228 2022 Annual Report 229 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Portfolio monitoring and credit losses If the Company does not expect to receive cash Rollforward of credit loss allowance for fixed income securities
flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost For the years ended December 31,
Fixed income securities The Company has a
basis of the fixed income security, a credit loss
comprehensive portfolio monitoring process to identify ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
allowance is recorded in earnings for the shortfall in
and evaluate each fixed income security that may Beginning balance $ (6) $ (2) $ —
expected cash flows; however, the amortized cost, net
require a credit loss allowance. Credit losses on securities for which credit losses not previously reported (1) (5) (2)
of the credit loss allowance, may not be lower than the
Net increases related to credit losses previously reported (6) 1 —
For each fixed income security in an unrealized loss fair value of the security. The portion of the unrealized
position, the Company assesses whether management loss related to factors other than credit remains Reduction of allowance related to sales — — —
with the appropriate authority has made the decision classified in AOCI. If the Company determines that the Write-offs — — —
to sell or whether it is more likely than not the fixed income security does not have sufficient cash Ending balance $ (13) $ (6) $ (2)
Company will be required to sell the security before flow or other information to estimate a recovery value
Components of credit loss allowance
recovery of the amortized cost basis for reasons such for the security, the Company may conclude that the
Corporate bonds $ (11) $ (6) $ (1)
as liquidity, contractual or regulatory purposes. If a entire decline in fair value is deemed to be credit
security meets either of these criteria, any existing related and the loss is recorded in earnings. ABS (2) — (1)
credit loss allowance would be written-off against the Total $ (13) $ (6) $ (2)
When a security is sold or otherwise disposed or
amortized cost basis of the asset along with any
when the security is deemed uncollectible and written
remaining unrealized losses, with incremental losses Gross unrealized losses and fair value by type and length of time held in a continuous unrealized loss position
off, the Company removes amounts previously
recorded in earnings.
recognized in the credit loss allowance. Recoveries Less than 12 months 12 months or more
If the Company has not made the decision to sell after write-offs are recognized when received. Accrued
Number Number Total
the fixed income security and it is not more likely than interest excluded from the amortized cost of fixed
of Fair Unrealized of Fair Unrealized unrealized
not the Company will be required to sell the fixed income securities totaled $389 million and $311 million ($ in millions) issues value losses issues value losses losses
income security before recovery of its amortized cost as of December 31, 2022, and 2021, respectively, and is December 31, 2022
basis, the Company evaluates whether it expects to reported within the accrued investment income line of Fixed income securities
receive cash flows sufficient to recover the entire the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. The
U.S. government and agencies 112 $ 4,900 $ (138) 75 $ 2,393 $ (93) $ (231)
amortized cost basis of the security. The Company Company monitors accrued interest and writes off
Municipal 3,015 3,944 (215) 507 740 (111) (326)
calculates the estimated recovery value based on the amounts when they are not expected to be received.
Corporate 2,085 18,072 (1,389) 845 6,105 (956) (2,345)
best estimate of future cash flows considering past
The Company’s portfolio monitoring process Foreign government 74 739 (22) 42 200 (18) (40)
events, current conditions and reasonable and
includes a quarterly review of all securities to identify
supportable forecasts. The estimated future cash flows ABS 194 874 (27) 83 109 (8) (35)
instances where the fair value of a security compared
are discounted at the security’s current effective rate Total fixed income securities 5,480 $ 28,529 $ (1,791) 1,552 $ 9,547 $ (1,186) $ (2,977)
to its amortized cost is below internally established
and is compared to the amortized cost of the security.
thresholds. The process also includes the monitoring of Investment grade fixed income securities 4,959 $ 25,487 $ (1,409) 1,437 $ 8,791 $ (1,009) $ (2,418)
The determination of cash flow estimates is other credit loss indicators such as ratings, ratings Below investment grade fixed income
inherently subjective, and methodologies may vary downgrades and payment defaults. The securities securities 521 3,042 (382) 115 756 (177) (559)
depending on facts and circumstances specific to the identified, in addition to other securities for which the Total fixed income securities 5,480 $ 28,529 $ (1,791) 1,552 $ 9,547 $ (1,186) $ (2,977)
security. All reasonably available information relevant Company may have a concern, are evaluated for
to the collectability of the security is considered when potential credit losses using all reasonably available
December 31, 2021
developing the estimate of cash flows expected to be information relevant to the collectability or recovery of
Fixed income securities
collected. That information generally includes, but is the security. Inherent in the Company’s evaluation of
U.S. government and agencies 112 $ 5,451 $ (24) 4 $ 72 $ (2) $ (26)
not limited to, the remaining payment terms of the credit losses for these securities are assumptions and
security, prepayment speeds, the financial condition estimates about the financial condition and future Municipal 767 1,213 (15) 2 14 (1) (16)
and future earnings potential of the issue or issuer, earnings potential of the issue or issuer. Some of the Corporate 1,197 9,725 (176) 22 130 (16) (192)
expected defaults, expected recoveries, the value of factors that may be considered in evaluating whether a Foreign government 51 415 (6) 4 3 — (6)
underlying collateral, origination vintage year, decline in fair value requires a credit loss allowance are: ABS 80 500 (2) 53 8 — (2)
geographic concentration of underlying collateral, 1) the financial condition, near-term and long-term Total fixed income securities 2,207 $ 17,304 $ (223) 85 $ 227 $ (19) $ (242)
available reserves or escrows, current subordination prospects of the issue or issuer, including relevant
Investment grade fixed income securities 1,993 $ 15,391 $ (188) 71 $ 183 $ (8) $ (196)
levels, third-party guarantees and other credit industry specific market conditions and trends,
enhancements. Other information, such as industry geographic location and implications of rating agency Below investment grade fixed income
analyst reports and forecasts, credit ratings, financial actions and offering prices; 2) the specific reasons that securities 214 1,913 (35) 14 44 (11) (46)
condition of the bond insurer for insured fixed income a security is in an unrealized loss position, including Total fixed income securities 2,207 $ 17,304 $ (223) 85 $ 227 $ (19) $ (242)
securities, and other market data relevant to the overall market conditions which could affect liquidity;
realizability of contractual cash flows, may also be and 3) the extent to which the fair value has been less
considered. The estimated fair value of collateral will than amortized cost.
be used to estimate recovery value if the Company
determines that the security is dependent on the
liquidation of collateral for ultimate settlement.
230 2022 Annual Report 231 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Portfolio monitoring and credit losses If the Company does not expect to receive cash Rollforward of credit loss allowance for fixed income securities
flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost For the years ended December 31,
Fixed income securities The Company has a
basis of the fixed income security, a credit loss
comprehensive portfolio monitoring process to identify ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
allowance is recorded in earnings for the shortfall in
and evaluate each fixed income security that may Beginning balance $ (6) $ (2) $ —
expected cash flows; however, the amortized cost, net
require a credit loss allowance. Credit losses on securities for which credit losses not previously reported (1) (5) (2)
of the credit loss allowance, may not be lower than the
Net increases related to credit losses previously reported (6) 1 —
For each fixed income security in an unrealized loss fair value of the security. The portion of the unrealized
position, the Company assesses whether management loss related to factors other than credit remains Reduction of allowance related to sales — — —
with the appropriate authority has made the decision classified in AOCI. If the Company determines that the Write-offs — — —
to sell or whether it is more likely than not the fixed income security does not have sufficient cash Ending balance $ (13) $ (6) $ (2)
Company will be required to sell the security before flow or other information to estimate a recovery value
Components of credit loss allowance
recovery of the amortized cost basis for reasons such for the security, the Company may conclude that the
Corporate bonds $ (11) $ (6) $ (1)
as liquidity, contractual or regulatory purposes. If a entire decline in fair value is deemed to be credit
security meets either of these criteria, any existing related and the loss is recorded in earnings. ABS (2) — (1)
credit loss allowance would be written-off against the Total $ (13) $ (6) $ (2)
When a security is sold or otherwise disposed or
amortized cost basis of the asset along with any
when the security is deemed uncollectible and written
remaining unrealized losses, with incremental losses Gross unrealized losses and fair value by type and length of time held in a continuous unrealized loss position
off, the Company removes amounts previously
recorded in earnings.
recognized in the credit loss allowance. Recoveries Less than 12 months 12 months or more
If the Company has not made the decision to sell after write-offs are recognized when received. Accrued
Number Number Total
the fixed income security and it is not more likely than interest excluded from the amortized cost of fixed
of Fair Unrealized of Fair Unrealized unrealized
not the Company will be required to sell the fixed income securities totaled $389 million and $311 million ($ in millions) issues value losses issues value losses losses
income security before recovery of its amortized cost as of December 31, 2022, and 2021, respectively, and is December 31, 2022
basis, the Company evaluates whether it expects to reported within the accrued investment income line of Fixed income securities
receive cash flows sufficient to recover the entire the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. The
U.S. government and agencies 112 $ 4,900 $ (138) 75 $ 2,393 $ (93) $ (231)
amortized cost basis of the security. The Company Company monitors accrued interest and writes off
Municipal 3,015 3,944 (215) 507 740 (111) (326)
calculates the estimated recovery value based on the amounts when they are not expected to be received.
Corporate 2,085 18,072 (1,389) 845 6,105 (956) (2,345)
best estimate of future cash flows considering past
The Company’s portfolio monitoring process Foreign government 74 739 (22) 42 200 (18) (40)
events, current conditions and reasonable and
includes a quarterly review of all securities to identify
supportable forecasts. The estimated future cash flows ABS 194 874 (27) 83 109 (8) (35)
instances where the fair value of a security compared
are discounted at the security’s current effective rate Total fixed income securities 5,480 $ 28,529 $ (1,791) 1,552 $ 9,547 $ (1,186) $ (2,977)
to its amortized cost is below internally established
and is compared to the amortized cost of the security.
thresholds. The process also includes the monitoring of Investment grade fixed income securities 4,959 $ 25,487 $ (1,409) 1,437 $ 8,791 $ (1,009) $ (2,418)
The determination of cash flow estimates is other credit loss indicators such as ratings, ratings Below investment grade fixed income
inherently subjective, and methodologies may vary downgrades and payment defaults. The securities securities 521 3,042 (382) 115 756 (177) (559)
depending on facts and circumstances specific to the identified, in addition to other securities for which the Total fixed income securities 5,480 $ 28,529 $ (1,791) 1,552 $ 9,547 $ (1,186) $ (2,977)
security. All reasonably available information relevant Company may have a concern, are evaluated for
to the collectability of the security is considered when potential credit losses using all reasonably available
December 31, 2021
developing the estimate of cash flows expected to be information relevant to the collectability or recovery of
Fixed income securities
collected. That information generally includes, but is the security. Inherent in the Company’s evaluation of
U.S. government and agencies 112 $ 5,451 $ (24) 4 $ 72 $ (2) $ (26)
not limited to, the remaining payment terms of the credit losses for these securities are assumptions and
security, prepayment speeds, the financial condition estimates about the financial condition and future Municipal 767 1,213 (15) 2 14 (1) (16)
and future earnings potential of the issue or issuer, earnings potential of the issue or issuer. Some of the Corporate 1,197 9,725 (176) 22 130 (16) (192)
expected defaults, expected recoveries, the value of factors that may be considered in evaluating whether a Foreign government 51 415 (6) 4 3 — (6)
underlying collateral, origination vintage year, decline in fair value requires a credit loss allowance are: ABS 80 500 (2) 53 8 — (2)
geographic concentration of underlying collateral, 1) the financial condition, near-term and long-term Total fixed income securities 2,207 $ 17,304 $ (223) 85 $ 227 $ (19) $ (242)
available reserves or escrows, current subordination prospects of the issue or issuer, including relevant
Investment grade fixed income securities 1,993 $ 15,391 $ (188) 71 $ 183 $ (8) $ (196)
levels, third-party guarantees and other credit industry specific market conditions and trends,
enhancements. Other information, such as industry geographic location and implications of rating agency Below investment grade fixed income
analyst reports and forecasts, credit ratings, financial actions and offering prices; 2) the specific reasons that securities 214 1,913 (35) 14 44 (11) (46)
condition of the bond insurer for insured fixed income a security is in an unrealized loss position, including Total fixed income securities 2,207 $ 17,304 $ (223) 85 $ 227 $ (19) $ (242)
securities, and other market data relevant to the overall market conditions which could affect liquidity;
realizability of contractual cash flows, may also be and 3) the extent to which the fair value has been less
considered. The estimated fair value of collateral will than amortized cost.
be used to estimate recovery value if the Company
determines that the security is dependent on the
liquidation of collateral for ultimate settlement.
230 2022 Annual Report 231 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Gross unrealized losses by unrealized loss position and credit quality as of December 31, 2022 Accrued interest is excluded from the amortized amortized cost. An alternative approach may be
cost of loans and is reported within the accrued utilized to estimate credit losses using the present
Investment Below investment
($ in millions) grade grade Total investment income line of the Consolidated value of the loan’s expected future repayment cash
Statements of Financial Position. flows discounted at the loan’s current effective interest
Fixed income securities with unrealized loss position less than
rate.
20% of amortized cost, net (1) (2) $ (2,058) $ (388) $ (2,446) Accrued interest
Fixed income securities with unrealized loss position greater than As of December 31, Individual loan credit loss allowances are adjusted
or equal to 20% of amortized cost, net (3) (4) (360) (171) (531) for subsequent changes in the fair value of the
($ in millions) 2022 2021
Total unrealized losses $ (2,418) $ (559) $ (2,977) collateral less costs to sell, when applicable, or present
Mortgage loans $ 3 $ 2
value of the loan’s expected future repayment cash
(1) Below investment grade fixed income securities include $302 million that have been in an unrealized loss position for less than Bank Loans 3 4 flows.
twelve months.
(2)Related to securities with an unrealized loss position less than 20% of amortized cost, net, the degree of which suggests that Mortgage loans When it is determined a mortgage Debt service coverage ratio is considered a key
these securities do not pose a high risk of having credit losses. loan shall be evaluated individually, the Company uses credit quality indicator when mortgage loan credit loss
(3)No below investment grade fixed income securities have been in an unrealized loss position for a period of twelve or more various methods to estimate credit losses on individual allowances are estimated. Debt service coverage ratio
loans such as using collateral value less estimated represents the amount of estimated cash flow from the
consecutive months.
costs to sell where applicable, including when property available to the borrower to meet principal
(4)Evaluated based on factors such as discounted cash flows and the financial condition and near-term and long-term prospects of
foreclosure is probable or when repayment is expected and interest payment obligations. Debt service
the issue or issuer and were determined to have adequate resources to fulfill contractual obligations.
to be provided substantially through the operation or coverage ratio estimates are updated annually or more
Investment grade is defined as a security having a Loans The Company establishes a credit loss sale of the collateral and the borrower is experiencing frequently if conditions are warranted based on the
National Association of Insurance Commissioners allowance for mortgage loans and bank loans when financial difficulty. When collateral value is used, the Company’s credit monitoring process.
(“NAIC”) designation of 1 or 2, which is comparable to a they are originated or purchased, and for unfunded mortgage loans may not have a credit loss allowance
rating of Aaa, Aa, A or Baa from Moody’s Investors commitments unless they are unconditionally when the fair value of the collateral exceeds the loan’s
Service (“Moody’s”), a rating of AAA, AA, A or BBB from cancellable by the Company. The Company uses a
S&P Global Ratings (“S&P”), a comparable rating probability of default and loss given default model for Mortgage loans amortized cost by debt service coverage ratio distribution and year of origination
from another nationally recognized rating agency, or a mortgage loans and bank loans to estimate current December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
comparable internal rating if an externally provided expected credit losses that considers all relevant
2017
rating is not available. Market prices for certain information available including past events, current
and
securities may have credit spreads which imply higher conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts ($ in millions) prior 2018 2019 2020 2021 Current Total Total
or lower credit quality than the current third-party over the life of an asset. The Company also considers
Below 1.0 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 18 $ 18 $ —
rating. Unrealized losses on investment grade such factors as historical losses, expected
1.0 - 1.25 10 — — 10 — 22 42 46
securities are principally related to an increase in prepayments and various economic factors. For
1.26 - 1.50 37 5 102 — — 7 151 160
market yields which may include increased risk-free mortgage loans the Company considers origination
Above 1.50 36 73 136 42 217 54 558 621
interest rates or wider credit spreads since the time of vintage year and property level information such as
initial purchase. The unrealized losses are expected to debt service coverage, property type, property location Amortized cost before
allowance $ 83 $ 78 $ 238 $ 52 $ 217 $ 101 $ 769 $ 827
reverse as the securities approach maturity. and collateral value. For bank loans the Company
considers the credit rating of the borrower, credit Allowance (7) (6)
ABS in an unrealized loss position were evaluated
spreads and type of loan. After the reasonable and Amortized cost, net $ 762 $ 821
based on actual and projected collateral losses relative
supportable forecast period, the Company’s model
to the securities’ positions in the respective
reverts to historical loss trends. Mortgage loans with a debt service coverage ratio temporary, or there are other risk mitigating
securitization trusts, security specific expectations of
below 1.0 that are not considered impaired primarily factors such as additional collateral, escrow balances
cash flows, and credit ratings. This evaluation also Loans are evaluated on a pooled basis when they
relate to situations where the borrower has the or borrower guarantees. Payments on all mortgage
takes into consideration credit enhancement, share similar risk characteristics. The Company
financial capacity to fund the revenue shortfalls from loans were current as of December 31, 2022, 2021 and
measured in terms of (i) subordination from other monitors loans through a quarterly credit monitoring
the properties for the foreseeable term, the decrease 2020.
classes of securities in the trust that are contractually process to determine when they no longer share
in cash flows from the properties is considered
obligated to absorb losses before the class of security similar risk characteristics and are to be evaluated
the Company owns, and (ii) the expected impact of individually when estimating credit losses. Rollforward of credit loss allowance for mortgage loans
other structural features embedded in the For the years ended December 31,
Loans are written off against their corresponding
securitization trust beneficial to the class of securities allowances when there is no reasonable expectation of ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
the Company owns, such as overcollateralization and
recovery. If a loan recovers after a write-off, the Beginning balance $ (6) $ (67) $ (3)
excess spread. Municipal bonds in an unrealized loss
estimate of expected credit losses includes the Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — — (42)
position were evaluated based on the underlying credit
expected recovery. Net (increases) decreases related to credit losses (1) 40 (39)
quality of the primary obligor, obligation type and
quality of the underlying assets. Accrual of income is suspended for loans that are Reduction of allowance related to sales — 21 17
in default or when full and timely collection of principal Write-offs — — —
As of December 31, 2022, the Company has not
and interest payments is not probable. Accrued Ending balance (1) $ (7) $ (6) $ (67)
made the decision to sell and it is not more likely than
income receivable is monitored for recoverability and
not the Company will be required to sell fixed income (1) Includes $59 million of credit loss allowance for mortgage loans that are classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2020.
when not expected to be collected is written off
securities with unrealized losses before recovery of the
through net investment income. Cash receipts on loans Bank loans When it is determined a bank loan shall be evaluated individually, the Company uses various methods
amortized cost basis.
on non-accrual status are generally recorded as a to estimate credit losses on individual loans such as the present value of the loan’s expected future repayment cash
reduction of amortized cost. flows discounted at the loan’s current effective interest rate.
Credit ratings of the borrower are considered a key credit quality indicator when bank loan credit loss allowances
are estimated. The ratings are updated quarterly and are either received from a nationally recognized rating agency or
a comparable internal rating is derived if an externally provided rating is not available. The year of origination is
determined to be the year in which the asset is acquired.
232 2022 Annual Report 233 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Gross unrealized losses by unrealized loss position and credit quality as of December 31, 2022 Accrued interest is excluded from the amortized amortized cost. An alternative approach may be
cost of loans and is reported within the accrued utilized to estimate credit losses using the present
Investment Below investment
($ in millions) grade grade Total investment income line of the Consolidated value of the loan’s expected future repayment cash
Statements of Financial Position. flows discounted at the loan’s current effective interest
Fixed income securities with unrealized loss position less than
rate.
20% of amortized cost, net (1) (2) $ (2,058) $ (388) $ (2,446) Accrued interest
Fixed income securities with unrealized loss position greater than As of December 31, Individual loan credit loss allowances are adjusted
or equal to 20% of amortized cost, net (3) (4) (360) (171) (531) for subsequent changes in the fair value of the
($ in millions) 2022 2021
Total unrealized losses $ (2,418) $ (559) $ (2,977) collateral less costs to sell, when applicable, or present
Mortgage loans $ 3 $ 2
value of the loan’s expected future repayment cash
(1) Below investment grade fixed income securities include $302 million that have been in an unrealized loss position for less than Bank Loans 3 4 flows.
twelve months.
(2)Related to securities with an unrealized loss position less than 20% of amortized cost, net, the degree of which suggests that Mortgage loans When it is determined a mortgage Debt service coverage ratio is considered a key
these securities do not pose a high risk of having credit losses. loan shall be evaluated individually, the Company uses credit quality indicator when mortgage loan credit loss
(3)No below investment grade fixed income securities have been in an unrealized loss position for a period of twelve or more various methods to estimate credit losses on individual allowances are estimated. Debt service coverage ratio
loans such as using collateral value less estimated represents the amount of estimated cash flow from the
consecutive months.
costs to sell where applicable, including when property available to the borrower to meet principal
(4)Evaluated based on factors such as discounted cash flows and the financial condition and near-term and long-term prospects of
foreclosure is probable or when repayment is expected and interest payment obligations. Debt service
the issue or issuer and were determined to have adequate resources to fulfill contractual obligations.
to be provided substantially through the operation or coverage ratio estimates are updated annually or more
Investment grade is defined as a security having a Loans The Company establishes a credit loss sale of the collateral and the borrower is experiencing frequently if conditions are warranted based on the
National Association of Insurance Commissioners allowance for mortgage loans and bank loans when financial difficulty. When collateral value is used, the Company’s credit monitoring process.
(“NAIC”) designation of 1 or 2, which is comparable to a they are originated or purchased, and for unfunded mortgage loans may not have a credit loss allowance
rating of Aaa, Aa, A or Baa from Moody’s Investors commitments unless they are unconditionally when the fair value of the collateral exceeds the loan’s
Service (“Moody’s”), a rating of AAA, AA, A or BBB from cancellable by the Company. The Company uses a
S&P Global Ratings (“S&P”), a comparable rating probability of default and loss given default model for Mortgage loans amortized cost by debt service coverage ratio distribution and year of origination
from another nationally recognized rating agency, or a mortgage loans and bank loans to estimate current December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
comparable internal rating if an externally provided expected credit losses that considers all relevant
2017
rating is not available. Market prices for certain information available including past events, current
and
securities may have credit spreads which imply higher conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts ($ in millions) prior 2018 2019 2020 2021 Current Total Total
or lower credit quality than the current third-party over the life of an asset. The Company also considers
Below 1.0 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 18 $ 18 $ —
rating. Unrealized losses on investment grade such factors as historical losses, expected
1.0 - 1.25 10 — — 10 — 22 42 46
securities are principally related to an increase in prepayments and various economic factors. For
1.26 - 1.50 37 5 102 — — 7 151 160
market yields which may include increased risk-free mortgage loans the Company considers origination
Above 1.50 36 73 136 42 217 54 558 621
interest rates or wider credit spreads since the time of vintage year and property level information such as
initial purchase. The unrealized losses are expected to debt service coverage, property type, property location Amortized cost before
allowance $ 83 $ 78 $ 238 $ 52 $ 217 $ 101 $ 769 $ 827
reverse as the securities approach maturity. and collateral value. For bank loans the Company
considers the credit rating of the borrower, credit Allowance (7) (6)
ABS in an unrealized loss position were evaluated
spreads and type of loan. After the reasonable and Amortized cost, net $ 762 $ 821
based on actual and projected collateral losses relative
supportable forecast period, the Company’s model
to the securities’ positions in the respective
reverts to historical loss trends. Mortgage loans with a debt service coverage ratio temporary, or there are other risk mitigating
securitization trusts, security specific expectations of
below 1.0 that are not considered impaired primarily factors such as additional collateral, escrow balances
cash flows, and credit ratings. This evaluation also Loans are evaluated on a pooled basis when they
relate to situations where the borrower has the or borrower guarantees. Payments on all mortgage
takes into consideration credit enhancement, share similar risk characteristics. The Company
financial capacity to fund the revenue shortfalls from loans were current as of December 31, 2022, 2021 and
measured in terms of (i) subordination from other monitors loans through a quarterly credit monitoring
the properties for the foreseeable term, the decrease 2020.
classes of securities in the trust that are contractually process to determine when they no longer share
in cash flows from the properties is considered
obligated to absorb losses before the class of security similar risk characteristics and are to be evaluated
the Company owns, and (ii) the expected impact of individually when estimating credit losses. Rollforward of credit loss allowance for mortgage loans
other structural features embedded in the For the years ended December 31,
Loans are written off against their corresponding
securitization trust beneficial to the class of securities allowances when there is no reasonable expectation of ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
the Company owns, such as overcollateralization and
recovery. If a loan recovers after a write-off, the Beginning balance $ (6) $ (67) $ (3)
excess spread. Municipal bonds in an unrealized loss
estimate of expected credit losses includes the Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — — (42)
position were evaluated based on the underlying credit
expected recovery. Net (increases) decreases related to credit losses (1) 40 (39)
quality of the primary obligor, obligation type and
quality of the underlying assets. Accrual of income is suspended for loans that are Reduction of allowance related to sales — 21 17
in default or when full and timely collection of principal Write-offs — — —
As of December 31, 2022, the Company has not
and interest payments is not probable. Accrued Ending balance (1) $ (7) $ (6) $ (67)
made the decision to sell and it is not more likely than
income receivable is monitored for recoverability and
not the Company will be required to sell fixed income (1) Includes $59 million of credit loss allowance for mortgage loans that are classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2020.
when not expected to be collected is written off
securities with unrealized losses before recovery of the
through net investment income. Cash receipts on loans Bank loans When it is determined a bank loan shall be evaluated individually, the Company uses various methods
amortized cost basis.
on non-accrual status are generally recorded as a to estimate credit losses on individual loans such as the present value of the loan’s expected future repayment cash
reduction of amortized cost. flows discounted at the loan’s current effective interest rate.
Credit ratings of the borrower are considered a key credit quality indicator when bank loan credit loss allowances
are estimated. The ratings are updated quarterly and are either received from a nationally recognized rating agency or
a comparable internal rating is derived if an externally provided rating is not available. The year of origination is
determined to be the year in which the asset is acquired.
232 2022 Annual Report 233 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Bank loans amortized cost by credit rating and year of origination individual fair values that have stale security prices or Summary of significant inputs and valuation
that exceed certain thresholds as compared to techniques for Level 2 and Level 3 assets and
($ in millions) December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
previous fair values received from valuation service liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis
2017
providers or brokers or derived from internal models.
and Level 2 measurements
prior 2018 2019 2020 2021 Current Total Total The Company performs procedures to understand and
NAIC 2 / BBB $ — $ — $ 6 $ 6 $ 37 $ 5 $ 54 $ 86 assess the methodologies, processes and controls of • Fixed income securities:
valuation service providers. In addition, the Company
NAIC 3 / BB 6 — 5 2 239 14 266 656 U.S. government and agencies, municipal,
may validate the reasonableness of fair values by
NAIC 4 / B 7 16 17 15 241 33 329 768 corporate - public and foreign government: The
comparing information obtained from valuation service
NAIC 5-6 / CCC and below 21 10 36 8 14 5 94 125 primary inputs to the valuation include quoted
providers or brokers to other third-party valuation
Amortized cost before prices for identical or similar assets in markets that
sources for selected securities. The Company performs
allowance $ 34 $ 26 $ 64 $ 31 $ 531 $ 57 $ 743 $ 1,635 are not active, contractual cash flows, benchmark
ongoing price validation procedures such as back-
Allowance (57) (61) yields and credit spreads.
testing of actual sales, which corroborate the various
Amortized cost, net $ 686 $ 1,574 inputs used in internal models to market observable Corporate - privately placed: Privately placed are
data. When fair value determinations are expected to valued using a discounted cash flow model that is
Rollforward of credit loss allowance for bank loans be more variable, the Company validates them through widely accepted in the financial services industry
For the years ended December 31, reviews by members of management who have and uses market observable inputs and inputs
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 relevant expertise and who are independent of those derived principally from, or corroborated by,
Beginning balance $ (61) $ (67) $ — charged with executing investment transactions. observable market data. The primary inputs to the
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — — (53) The Company has two types of situations where discounted cash flow model include an interest
Net decreases related to credit losses (26) (15) (28) investments are classified as Level 3 in the fair value rate yield curve, as well as published credit
spreads for similar assets in markets that are not
Reduction of allowance related to sales 30 21 9 hierarchy:
active that incorporate the credit quality and
Write-offs — — 5
(1) Specific inputs significant to the fair value industry sector of the issuer.
Ending balance (1) $ (57) $ (61) $ (67) estimation models are not market observable. This
Corporate - privately placed also includes
primarily occurs in the Company’s use of broker
(1) Includes $16 million of credit loss allowance for bank loans that are classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2020. redeemable preferred stock that are valued using
quotes to value certain securities where the inputs
quoted prices for identical or similar assets in
Note 6 Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities have not been corroborated to be market
markets that are not active, contractual cash flows,
observable, and the use of valuation models that
benchmark yields, underlying stock prices and
use significant non-market observable inputs.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be The availability of observable inputs varies by credit spreads.
received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in instrument. In situations where fair value is based on (2) Quotes continue to be received from independent
an orderly transaction between market participants at internally developed pricing models or inputs that are third-party valuation service providers and all ABS: The primary inputs to the valuation include
the measurement date. The hierarchy for inputs used unobservable in the market, the determination of fair significant inputs are market observable; however, quoted prices for identical or similar assets in
in determining fair value maximizes the use of value requires more judgment. The degree of there has been a significant decrease in the markets that are not active, contractual cash flows,
observable inputs and minimizes the use of judgment exercised by the Company in determining volume and level of activity for the asset when benchmark yields, collateral performance, and
unobservable inputs by requiring that observable fair value is typically greatest for instruments compared to normal market activity such that the credit spreads. Certain ABS are valued based on
inputs be used when available. Assets and liabilities categorized in Level 3. In many instances, valuation degree of market observability has declined to a non-binding broker quotes whose inputs have
recorded on the Consolidated Statements of Financial inputs used to measure fair value fall into different point where categorization as a Level 3 been corroborated to be market observable.
Position at fair value are categorized in the fair value levels of the fair value hierarchy. The category level in measurement is considered appropriate. The Residential mortgage-backed securities (“MBS”),
hierarchy based on the observability of inputs to the the fair value hierarchy is determined based on the indicators considered in determining whether a included in ABS, use prepayment speeds as a
valuation techniques as follows: lowest level input that is significant to the fair value significant decrease in the volume and level of primary input for valuation.
Level 1: Assets and liabilities whose values are based measurement in its entirety. The Company uses prices activity for a specific asset has occurred include • Equity securities: The primary inputs to the
on unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or and inputs that are current as of the measurement the level of new issuances in the primary market, valuation include quoted prices or quoted net
liabilities in an active market that the Company can date, including during periods of market disruption. In trading volume in the secondary market, the level asset values for identical or similar assets in
access. periods of market disruption, the ability to observe of credit spreads over historical levels, applicable markets that are not active.
prices and inputs may be reduced for many bid-ask spreads, and price consensus among
Level 2: Assets and liabilities whose values are based instruments. market participants and other pricing sources. • Short-term: The primary inputs to the valuation
on the following: include quoted prices for identical or similar assets
The Company is responsible for the determination Certain assets are not carried at fair value on a in markets that are not active, contractual cash
(a) Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in of fair value and the supporting assumptions and recurring basis, including mortgage loans, bank loans flows, benchmark yields and credit spreads.
active markets; methodologies. The Company gains assurance that and policy loans and are only included in the fair value
assets and liabilities are appropriately valued through hierarchy disclosure when the individual investment is • Other investments: Free-standing exchange listed
(b)Quoted prices for identical or similar assets or the execution of various processes and controls reported at fair value. derivatives that are not actively traded are valued
liabilities in markets that are not active; or designed to ensure the overall reasonableness and based on quoted prices for identical instruments in
(c) Valuation models whose inputs are observable, consistent application of valuation methodologies, In determining fair value, the Company principally markets that are not active.
d of ir t e h c e tl y a s o s r e i t n o d r ir l e ia c b tl i y li , t y fo . r substantially the full term i a t n h c c i c r l d u o d u p n in a t g r in t i i g e n s p s t u o a t r n s in d a t a n e r d r d n s a a . s l F l s y o u e r m s f p a ti i t m r i o v a n a t s l e u , d e a , s n t d h re e c c o C e m i o v m p ed l p ia a f n r n o c y m e ’s w ith u m in s s a e t r s r k u e t m h t e e t r n m a t n s a s . r a k T c e o t t i a o a n p le p d s r s a o e t a a r c e f h o x r w t e t h h n i e t c , h s t h a g m e e n C e e o o r m a r l s p ly i a m u n i t y l i a li u r z s e e s s the O in v te e r r e -t s h t e r - a c t o e u s n w te a r p ( s “ , O f T or C e ” i ) g d n e c ri u v r a r t e i n ve cy s, s in w c a l p ud s, i n to g t al
Level 3:Assets and liabilities whose values are based processes and controls are designed to ensure that the income approach which involves determining fair return swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts,
on prices or valuation techniques that require inputs valuation methodologies are appropriate and values from discounted cash flow methodologies. For certain options and certain credit default swaps,
that are both unobservable and significant to the consistently applied, the inputs and assumptions are the majority of Level 2 and Level 3 valuations, a are valued using models that rely on inputs such as
overall fair value measurement. Unobservable inputs reasonable and consistent with the objective of combination of the market and income approaches is interest rate yield curves, implied volatilities, index
reflect the Company’s estimates of the assumptions determining fair value, and the fair values are used. price levels, currency rates, and credit spreads that
that market participants would use in valuing the accurately recorded. For example, on a continuing are observable for substantially the full term of the
assets and liabilities. basis, the Company assesses the reasonableness of contract. The valuation techniques underlying the
234 2022 Annual Report 235 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Bank loans amortized cost by credit rating and year of origination individual fair values that have stale security prices or Summary of significant inputs and valuation
that exceed certain thresholds as compared to techniques for Level 2 and Level 3 assets and
($ in millions) December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
previous fair values received from valuation service liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis
2017
providers or brokers or derived from internal models.
and Level 2 measurements
prior 2018 2019 2020 2021 Current Total Total The Company performs procedures to understand and
NAIC 2 / BBB $ — $ — $ 6 $ 6 $ 37 $ 5 $ 54 $ 86 assess the methodologies, processes and controls of • Fixed income securities:
valuation service providers. In addition, the Company
NAIC 3 / BB 6 — 5 2 239 14 266 656 U.S. government and agencies, municipal,
may validate the reasonableness of fair values by
NAIC 4 / B 7 16 17 15 241 33 329 768 corporate - public and foreign government: The
comparing information obtained from valuation service
NAIC 5-6 / CCC and below 21 10 36 8 14 5 94 125 primary inputs to the valuation include quoted
providers or brokers to other third-party valuation
Amortized cost before prices for identical or similar assets in markets that
sources for selected securities. The Company performs
allowance $ 34 $ 26 $ 64 $ 31 $ 531 $ 57 $ 743 $ 1,635 are not active, contractual cash flows, benchmark
ongoing price validation procedures such as back-
Allowance (57) (61) yields and credit spreads.
testing of actual sales, which corroborate the various
Amortized cost, net $ 686 $ 1,574 inputs used in internal models to market observable Corporate - privately placed: Privately placed are
data. When fair value determinations are expected to valued using a discounted cash flow model that is
Rollforward of credit loss allowance for bank loans be more variable, the Company validates them through widely accepted in the financial services industry
For the years ended December 31, reviews by members of management who have and uses market observable inputs and inputs
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 relevant expertise and who are independent of those derived principally from, or corroborated by,
Beginning balance $ (61) $ (67) $ — charged with executing investment transactions. observable market data. The primary inputs to the
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle — — (53) The Company has two types of situations where discounted cash flow model include an interest
Net decreases related to credit losses (26) (15) (28) investments are classified as Level 3 in the fair value rate yield curve, as well as published credit
spreads for similar assets in markets that are not
Reduction of allowance related to sales 30 21 9 hierarchy:
active that incorporate the credit quality and
Write-offs — — 5
(1) Specific inputs significant to the fair value industry sector of the issuer.
Ending balance (1) $ (57) $ (61) $ (67) estimation models are not market observable. This
Corporate - privately placed also includes
primarily occurs in the Company’s use of broker
(1) Includes $16 million of credit loss allowance for bank loans that are classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2020. redeemable preferred stock that are valued using
quotes to value certain securities where the inputs
quoted prices for identical or similar assets in
Note 6 Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities have not been corroborated to be market
markets that are not active, contractual cash flows,
observable, and the use of valuation models that
benchmark yields, underlying stock prices and
use significant non-market observable inputs.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be The availability of observable inputs varies by credit spreads.
received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in instrument. In situations where fair value is based on (2) Quotes continue to be received from independent
an orderly transaction between market participants at internally developed pricing models or inputs that are third-party valuation service providers and all ABS: The primary inputs to the valuation include
the measurement date. The hierarchy for inputs used unobservable in the market, the determination of fair significant inputs are market observable; however, quoted prices for identical or similar assets in
in determining fair value maximizes the use of value requires more judgment. The degree of there has been a significant decrease in the markets that are not active, contractual cash flows,
observable inputs and minimizes the use of judgment exercised by the Company in determining volume and level of activity for the asset when benchmark yields, collateral performance, and
unobservable inputs by requiring that observable fair value is typically greatest for instruments compared to normal market activity such that the credit spreads. Certain ABS are valued based on
inputs be used when available. Assets and liabilities categorized in Level 3. In many instances, valuation degree of market observability has declined to a non-binding broker quotes whose inputs have
recorded on the Consolidated Statements of Financial inputs used to measure fair value fall into different point where categorization as a Level 3 been corroborated to be market observable.
Position at fair value are categorized in the fair value levels of the fair value hierarchy. The category level in measurement is considered appropriate. The Residential mortgage-backed securities (“MBS”),
hierarchy based on the observability of inputs to the the fair value hierarchy is determined based on the indicators considered in determining whether a included in ABS, use prepayment speeds as a
valuation techniques as follows: lowest level input that is significant to the fair value significant decrease in the volume and level of primary input for valuation.
Level 1: Assets and liabilities whose values are based measurement in its entirety. The Company uses prices activity for a specific asset has occurred include • Equity securities: The primary inputs to the
on unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or and inputs that are current as of the measurement the level of new issuances in the primary market, valuation include quoted prices or quoted net
liabilities in an active market that the Company can date, including during periods of market disruption. In trading volume in the secondary market, the level asset values for identical or similar assets in
access. periods of market disruption, the ability to observe of credit spreads over historical levels, applicable markets that are not active.
prices and inputs may be reduced for many bid-ask spreads, and price consensus among
Level 2: Assets and liabilities whose values are based instruments. market participants and other pricing sources. • Short-term: The primary inputs to the valuation
on the following: include quoted prices for identical or similar assets
The Company is responsible for the determination Certain assets are not carried at fair value on a in markets that are not active, contractual cash
(a) Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in of fair value and the supporting assumptions and recurring basis, including mortgage loans, bank loans flows, benchmark yields and credit spreads.
active markets; methodologies. The Company gains assurance that and policy loans and are only included in the fair value
assets and liabilities are appropriately valued through hierarchy disclosure when the individual investment is • Other investments: Free-standing exchange listed
(b)Quoted prices for identical or similar assets or the execution of various processes and controls reported at fair value. derivatives that are not actively traded are valued
liabilities in markets that are not active; or designed to ensure the overall reasonableness and based on quoted prices for identical instruments in
(c) Valuation models whose inputs are observable, consistent application of valuation methodologies, In determining fair value, the Company principally markets that are not active.
d of ir t e h c e tl y a s o s r e i t n o d r ir l e ia c b tl i y li , t y fo . r substantially the full term i a t n h c c i c r l d u o d u p n in a t g r in t i i g e n s p s t u o a t r n s in d a t a n e r d r d n s a a . s l F l s y o u e r m s f p a ti i t m r i o v a n a t s l e u , d e a , s n t d h re e c c o C e m i o v m p ed l p ia a f n r n o c y m e ’s w ith u m in s s a e t r s r k u e t m h t e e t r n m a t n s a s . r a k T c e o t t i a o a n p le p d s r s a o e t a a r c e f h o x r w t e t h h n i e t c , h s t h a g m e e n C e e o o r m a r l s p ly i a m u n i t y l i a li u r z s e e s s the O in v te e r r e -t s h t e r - a c t o e u s n w te a r p ( s “ , O f T or C e ” i ) g d n e c ri u v r a r t e i n ve cy s, s in w c a l p ud s, i n to g t al
Level 3:Assets and liabilities whose values are based processes and controls are designed to ensure that the income approach which involves determining fair return swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts,
on prices or valuation techniques that require inputs valuation methodologies are appropriate and values from discounted cash flow methodologies. For certain options and certain credit default swaps,
that are both unobservable and significant to the consistently applied, the inputs and assumptions are the majority of Level 2 and Level 3 valuations, a are valued using models that rely on inputs such as
overall fair value measurement. Unobservable inputs reasonable and consistent with the objective of combination of the market and income approaches is interest rate yield curves, implied volatilities, index
reflect the Company’s estimates of the assumptions determining fair value, and the fair values are used. price levels, currency rates, and credit spreads that
that market participants would use in valuing the accurately recorded. For example, on a continuing are observable for substantially the full term of the
assets and liabilities. basis, the Company assesses the reasonableness of contract. The valuation techniques underlying the
234 2022 Annual Report 235 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
models are widely accepted in the financial • Other assets: Includes the contingent
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value
services industry and do not involve significant consideration provision in the sale agreement for
As of December 31, 2022
judgment. ALIC which meets the definition of a derivative.
This derivative is valued internally using a model Quoted prices
Level 3 measurements in active Significant
that includes stochastically determined cash flows
markets for other Significant Counterparty
• Fixed income securities: and inputs that include spot and forward interest identical observable unobservable and cash
rates, volatility, corporate credit spreads and a assets inputs inputs collateral
Municipal: Comprise municipal bonds that are not ($ in millions) (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) netting Total
liquidity discount. This derivative is categorized as
rated by third-party credit rating agencies. The Assets
Level 3 due to the significance of non-market
primary inputs to the valuation of these municipal observable inputs. Fixed income securities:
bonds include quoted prices for identical or similar U.S. government and agencies $ 7,878 $ 20 $ — $ 7,898
assets that are not market observable, contractual • Assets held for sale: Comprise municipal, corporate
Municipal — 6,189 21 6,210
cash flows, benchmark yields and credit spreads. and ABS fixed income securities and equity
Corporate - public — 18,547 69 18,616
Also included are municipal bonds valued based on securities. The valuation is based on the respective
Corporate - privately placed — 7,592 55 7,647
non-binding broker quotes where the inputs have asset type as described above.
Foreign government — 957 — 957
not been corroborated to be market observable
• Liabilities held for sale: Comprise derivatives
and municipal bonds in default valued based on ABS — 1,129 28 1,157
embedded in certain life and annuity contracts
the present value of expected cash flows. Total fixed income securities 7,878 34,434 173 42,485
which are valued internally using models widely
Equity securities 3,936 298 333 4,567
Corporate - public and privately placed and accepted in the financial services industry that
Short-term investments 508 3,659 6 4,173
ABS: Primarily valued based on non-binding broker determine a single best estimate of fair value for
quotes where the inputs have not been the embedded derivatives within a block of Other investments — 23 3 $ (22) 4
corroborated to be market observable. Other contractholder liabilities. The models primarily use Other assets 3 — 103 106
inputs for corporate fixed income securities stochastically determined cash flows based on the Total recurring basis assets 12,325 38,414 618 (22) 51,335
include an interest rate yield curve, as well as contractual elements of embedded derivatives, Non-recurring basis — — 23 23
published credit spreads for similar assets that projected option cost and applicable market data, Total assets at fair value $ 12,325 $ 38,414 $ 641 $ (22) $ 51,358
incorporate the credit quality and industry sector such as interest rate yield curves and equity index % of total assets at fair value 24.0 % 74.8 % 1.2 % — % 100.0 %
of the issuer. volatility assumptions. These are categorized as
Level 3 as a result of the significance of non-
• Equity securities: The primary inputs to the Investments reported at NAV 1,246
market observable inputs.
valuation include quoted prices or quoted net Total $ 52,604
asset values for identical or similar assets that are Assets measured at fair value on a non-recurring Liabilities
not market observable. basis Other liabilities $ (1) $ (25) $ — $ 21 $ (5)
• Short-term: For certain short-term investments, Comprise long-lived assets to be disposed of by Total recurring basis liabilities (1) (25) — 21 (5)
amortized cost is used as the best estimate of fair sale, including real estate, that are written down to fair Total liabilities at fair value $ (1) $ (25) $ — $ 21 $ (5)
value. value less costs to sell. % of total liabilities at fair value 20.0 % 500.0 % — % (420.0) % 100.0 %
• Other investments: Certain OTC derivatives, such Investments excluded from the fair value hierarchy
as interest rate caps, certain credit default swaps
Limited partnerships carried at fair value, which do
and certain options (including swaptions), are
not have readily determinable fair values, use NAV
valued using models that are widely accepted in
provided by the investees and are excluded from the
the financial services industry. These are
fair value hierarchy. These investments are generally
categorized as Level 3 as a result of the
not redeemable by the investees and generally cannot
significance of non-market observable inputs such
be sold without approval of the general partner. The
as volatility. Other primary inputs include interest
Company receives distributions of income and
rate yield curves and credit spreads and quoted
proceeds from the liquidation of the underlying assets
prices for identical or similar assets in markets that
of the investees, which usually takes place in years 4-9
exhibit less liquidity relative to those markets
of the typical contractual life of 10-12 years. As of
supporting Level 2 fair value measurements.
December 31, 2022, the Company has commitments to
invest $214 million in these limited partnership
interests.
236 2022 Annual Report 237 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
models are widely accepted in the financial • Other assets: Includes the contingent
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value
services industry and do not involve significant consideration provision in the sale agreement for
As of December 31, 2022
judgment. ALIC which meets the definition of a derivative.
This derivative is valued internally using a model Quoted prices
Level 3 measurements in active Significant
that includes stochastically determined cash flows
markets for other Significant Counterparty
• Fixed income securities: and inputs that include spot and forward interest identical observable unobservable and cash
rates, volatility, corporate credit spreads and a assets inputs inputs collateral
Municipal: Comprise municipal bonds that are not ($ in millions) (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) netting Total
liquidity discount. This derivative is categorized as
rated by third-party credit rating agencies. The Assets
Level 3 due to the significance of non-market
primary inputs to the valuation of these municipal observable inputs. Fixed income securities:
bonds include quoted prices for identical or similar U.S. government and agencies $ 7,878 $ 20 $ — $ 7,898
assets that are not market observable, contractual • Assets held for sale: Comprise municipal, corporate
Municipal — 6,189 21 6,210
cash flows, benchmark yields and credit spreads. and ABS fixed income securities and equity
Corporate - public — 18,547 69 18,616
Also included are municipal bonds valued based on securities. The valuation is based on the respective
Corporate - privately placed — 7,592 55 7,647
non-binding broker quotes where the inputs have asset type as described above.
Foreign government — 957 — 957
not been corroborated to be market observable
• Liabilities held for sale: Comprise derivatives
and municipal bonds in default valued based on ABS — 1,129 28 1,157
embedded in certain life and annuity contracts
the present value of expected cash flows. Total fixed income securities 7,878 34,434 173 42,485
which are valued internally using models widely
Equity securities 3,936 298 333 4,567
Corporate - public and privately placed and accepted in the financial services industry that
Short-term investments 508 3,659 6 4,173
ABS: Primarily valued based on non-binding broker determine a single best estimate of fair value for
quotes where the inputs have not been the embedded derivatives within a block of Other investments — 23 3 $ (22) 4
corroborated to be market observable. Other contractholder liabilities. The models primarily use Other assets 3 — 103 106
inputs for corporate fixed income securities stochastically determined cash flows based on the Total recurring basis assets 12,325 38,414 618 (22) 51,335
include an interest rate yield curve, as well as contractual elements of embedded derivatives, Non-recurring basis — — 23 23
published credit spreads for similar assets that projected option cost and applicable market data, Total assets at fair value $ 12,325 $ 38,414 $ 641 $ (22) $ 51,358
incorporate the credit quality and industry sector such as interest rate yield curves and equity index % of total assets at fair value 24.0 % 74.8 % 1.2 % — % 100.0 %
of the issuer. volatility assumptions. These are categorized as
Level 3 as a result of the significance of non-
• Equity securities: The primary inputs to the Investments reported at NAV 1,246
market observable inputs.
valuation include quoted prices or quoted net Total $ 52,604
asset values for identical or similar assets that are Assets measured at fair value on a non-recurring Liabilities
not market observable. basis Other liabilities $ (1) $ (25) $ — $ 21 $ (5)
• Short-term: For certain short-term investments, Comprise long-lived assets to be disposed of by Total recurring basis liabilities (1) (25) — 21 (5)
amortized cost is used as the best estimate of fair sale, including real estate, that are written down to fair Total liabilities at fair value $ (1) $ (25) $ — $ 21 $ (5)
value. value less costs to sell. % of total liabilities at fair value 20.0 % 500.0 % — % (420.0) % 100.0 %
• Other investments: Certain OTC derivatives, such Investments excluded from the fair value hierarchy
as interest rate caps, certain credit default swaps
Limited partnerships carried at fair value, which do
and certain options (including swaptions), are
not have readily determinable fair values, use NAV
valued using models that are widely accepted in
provided by the investees and are excluded from the
the financial services industry. These are
fair value hierarchy. These investments are generally
categorized as Level 3 as a result of the
not redeemable by the investees and generally cannot
significance of non-market observable inputs such
be sold without approval of the general partner. The
as volatility. Other primary inputs include interest
Company receives distributions of income and
rate yield curves and credit spreads and quoted
proceeds from the liquidation of the underlying assets
prices for identical or similar assets in markets that
of the investees, which usually takes place in years 4-9
exhibit less liquidity relative to those markets
of the typical contractual life of 10-12 years. As of
supporting Level 2 fair value measurements.
December 31, 2022, the Company has commitments to
invest $214 million in these limited partnership
interests.
236 2022 Annual Report 237 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value Rollforward of Level 3 assets and liabilities held at fair value during the year ended December 31, 2022
As of December 31, 2021 Total gains
(losses)
Quoted prices Balan o c f e as included in: Transfers Balan o c f e as
in active Significant December Net Into Out of December
markets for other Significant Counterparty ($ in millions) 31, 2021 income OCI Level 3 Level 3 Purchases Sales Issues Settlements 31, 2022
identical observable unobservable and cash
Assets
assets inputs inputs collateral
($ in millions) (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) netting Total Fixed income securities:
Assets Municipal $ 18 $ — $ 1 $ 2 $ — $ 2 $ — $ — $ (2) $ 21
Fixed income securities: Corporate - public 20 — (5) — — 66 (10) — (2) 69
U.S. government and agencies $ 6,247 $ 26 $ — $ 6,273 Corporate - privately placed 66 19 2 — — 34 (65) — (1) 55
Municipal — 6,375 18 6,393 ABS 40 1 — — (28) 17 — — (2) 28
Corporate - public — 16,569 20 16,589
Total fixed income securities 144 20 (2) 2 (28) 119 (75) — (7) 173
Corporate - privately placed — 10,675 66 10,741 Equity securities 349 16 — — — 13 (45) — — 333
Foreign government — 985 — 985 Short-term investments 5 — — — — 23 — — (22) 6
ABS — 1,115 40 1,155 Other investments 2 2 — — — — (1) — — 3
Total fixed income securities 6,247 35,745 144 42,136 Other assets 65 38 — — — — — — — 103
Equity securities 6,312 400 349 7,061
Total recurring Level 3 assets 565 76 (2) 2 (28) 155 (121) — (29) 618
Short-term investments 1,140 2,864 5 4,009
Liabilities
Other investments — 34 2 $ (22) 14
Other assets 1 — 65 66 Total recurring Level 3 liabilities $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ —
Total recurring basis assets 13,700 39,043 565 (22) 53,286
Non-recurring basis — — 32 32
Rollforward of Level 3 assets and liabilities held at fair value during the year ended December 31, 2021
Total assets at fair value $ 13,700 $ 39,043 $ 597 $ (22) $ 53,318
Total gains
% of total assets at fair value 25.7 % 73.2 % 1.1 % — % 100.0 % (losses)
Balance as included in: Transfers Balance as
of of
December Net Into Out of December
Investments reported at NAV 1,531 ($ in millions) 31, 2020 income OCI Level 3 Level 3 Purchases Sales Issues Settlements 31, 2021
Total $ 54,849 Assets
Liabilities Fixed income securities:
Other liabilities $ (3) $ (12) $ — $ 7 $ (8) Municipal $ 17 $ — $ — $ 1 $ — $ 3 $ — $ — $ (3) $ 18
Total recurring basis liabilities (3) (12) — 7 (8) Corporate - public 67 1 (1) — — 13 (53) — — 20
Total liabilities at fair value $ (3) $ (12) $ — $ 7 $ (8) Corporate - privately placed 63 (2) 3 10 — 6 (23) — (5) 66
% of total liabilities at fair value 37.5 % 150.0 % — % (87.5) % 100.0 % ABS 79 — 1 4 (32) 47 (5) — (54) 40
Total fixed income securities 226 (1) 3 15 (32) 69 (81) — (62) 144
As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, Level 3 fair inputs for these fixed income securities, they are not Equity securities 304 61 — — — 43 (160) — — 349
value measurements of fixed income securities total included in the table above. However, an increase Short-term investments 35 — — — — 5 — — (35) 5
$173 million and $144 million, respectively, and include (decrease) in credit spreads for fixed income securities Other investments — — — — — 3 (1) — — 2
$70 million and $41 million, respectively, of securities valued based on non-binding broker quotes would Other assets — 65 — — — — — — — 65
valued based on non-binding broker quotes where the result in a lower (higher) fair value, and an increase Assets held for sale 267 3 (1) 17 (13) 4 (163) — (6) —
inputs have not been corroborated to be market (decrease) in the credit rating of municipal bonds that
observable and $21 million and $16 million, respectively, are not rated by third-party credit rating agencies Total recurring Level 3 assets 832 128 2 32 (45) 124 (405) — (103) 565
of municipal fixed income securities that are not rated would result in a higher (lower) fair value. Liabilities
by third-party credit rating agencies. As the Company Liabilities held for sale (516) 35 — — — — 492 (28) 17 —
does not develop the Level 3 fair value unobservable
Total recurring Level 3 liabilities $ (516) $ 35 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 492 $ (28) $ 17 $ —
238 2022 Annual Report 239 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value Rollforward of Level 3 assets and liabilities held at fair value during the year ended December 31, 2022
As of December 31, 2021 Total gains
(losses)
Quoted prices Balan o c f e as included in: Transfers Balan o c f e as
in active Significant December Net Into Out of December
markets for other Significant Counterparty ($ in millions) 31, 2021 income OCI Level 3 Level 3 Purchases Sales Issues Settlements 31, 2022
identical observable unobservable and cash
Assets
assets inputs inputs collateral
($ in millions) (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) netting Total Fixed income securities:
Assets Municipal $ 18 $ — $ 1 $ 2 $ — $ 2 $ — $ — $ (2) $ 21
Fixed income securities: Corporate - public 20 — (5) — — 66 (10) — (2) 69
U.S. government and agencies $ 6,247 $ 26 $ — $ 6,273 Corporate - privately placed 66 19 2 — — 34 (65) — (1) 55
Municipal — 6,375 18 6,393 ABS 40 1 — — (28) 17 — — (2) 28
Corporate - public — 16,569 20 16,589
Total fixed income securities 144 20 (2) 2 (28) 119 (75) — (7) 173
Corporate - privately placed — 10,675 66 10,741 Equity securities 349 16 — — — 13 (45) — — 333
Foreign government — 985 — 985 Short-term investments 5 — — — — 23 — — (22) 6
ABS — 1,115 40 1,155 Other investments 2 2 — — — — (1) — — 3
Total fixed income securities 6,247 35,745 144 42,136 Other assets 65 38 — — — — — — — 103
Equity securities 6,312 400 349 7,061
Total recurring Level 3 assets 565 76 (2) 2 (28) 155 (121) — (29) 618
Short-term investments 1,140 2,864 5 4,009
Liabilities
Other investments — 34 2 $ (22) 14
Other assets 1 — 65 66 Total recurring Level 3 liabilities $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ —
Total recurring basis assets 13,700 39,043 565 (22) 53,286
Non-recurring basis — — 32 32
Rollforward of Level 3 assets and liabilities held at fair value during the year ended December 31, 2021
Total assets at fair value $ 13,700 $ 39,043 $ 597 $ (22) $ 53,318
Total gains
% of total assets at fair value 25.7 % 73.2 % 1.1 % — % 100.0 % (losses)
Balance as included in: Transfers Balance as
of of
December Net Into Out of December
Investments reported at NAV 1,531 ($ in millions) 31, 2020 income OCI Level 3 Level 3 Purchases Sales Issues Settlements 31, 2021
Total $ 54,849 Assets
Liabilities Fixed income securities:
Other liabilities $ (3) $ (12) $ — $ 7 $ (8) Municipal $ 17 $ — $ — $ 1 $ — $ 3 $ — $ — $ (3) $ 18
Total recurring basis liabilities (3) (12) — 7 (8) Corporate - public 67 1 (1) — — 13 (53) — — 20
Total liabilities at fair value $ (3) $ (12) $ — $ 7 $ (8) Corporate - privately placed 63 (2) 3 10 — 6 (23) — (5) 66
% of total liabilities at fair value 37.5 % 150.0 % — % (87.5) % 100.0 % ABS 79 — 1 4 (32) 47 (5) — (54) 40
Total fixed income securities 226 (1) 3 15 (32) 69 (81) — (62) 144
As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, Level 3 fair inputs for these fixed income securities, they are not Equity securities 304 61 — — — 43 (160) — — 349
value measurements of fixed income securities total included in the table above. However, an increase Short-term investments 35 — — — — 5 — — (35) 5
$173 million and $144 million, respectively, and include (decrease) in credit spreads for fixed income securities Other investments — — — — — 3 (1) — — 2
$70 million and $41 million, respectively, of securities valued based on non-binding broker quotes would Other assets — 65 — — — — — — — 65
valued based on non-binding broker quotes where the result in a lower (higher) fair value, and an increase Assets held for sale 267 3 (1) 17 (13) 4 (163) — (6) —
inputs have not been corroborated to be market (decrease) in the credit rating of municipal bonds that
observable and $21 million and $16 million, respectively, are not rated by third-party credit rating agencies Total recurring Level 3 assets 832 128 2 32 (45) 124 (405) — (103) 565
of municipal fixed income securities that are not rated would result in a higher (lower) fair value. Liabilities
by third-party credit rating agencies. As the Company Liabilities held for sale (516) 35 — — — — 492 (28) 17 —
does not develop the Level 3 fair value unobservable
Total recurring Level 3 liabilities $ (516) $ 35 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 492 $ (28) $ 17 $ —
238 2022 Annual Report 239 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Rollforward of Level 3 assets and liabilities held at fair value during the year ended December 31, 2020 Valuation changes included in net income and OCI for Level 3 assets and liabilities held as of December 31,
Total gains ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Balance as inc (l l o u s d s e e d s ) i n : Transfers Balance as Assets
of of Fixed income securities:
December Net Into Out of December
($ in millions) 31, 2019 income OCI Level 3 Level 3 Purchases Sales Issues Settlements 31, 2020 Corporate - public $ — $ — $ (1)
Assets Corporate - privately placed 1 (2) —
Total fixed income securities 1 (2) (1)
Fixed income securities:
Equity securities 14 28 (1)
Municipal $ 22 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ (3) $ — $ (2) $ 17
Other investments 2 — —
Corporate - public 36 — 1 1 — 48 (19) — — 67
Other assets 38 65 —
Corporate - privately placed 32 — (5) 21 — 17 (2) — — 63
Total recurring Level 3 assets $ 55 $ 91 $ (2)
ABS 84 (1) — 54 (49) 59 (26) — (42) 79
Liabilities
Total fixed income securities 174 (1) (4) 76 (49) 124 (50) — (44) 226 Liabilities held for sale $ — $ — $ (43)
Equity securities 255 — — — — 57 (8) — — 304 Total recurring Level 3 liabilities — — (43)
Short-term investments 25 — — — (25) 35 — — — 35 Total included in net income $ 55 $ 91 $ (45)
Assets held for sale 284 1 (8) 52 (42) 24 (37) — (7) 267
Components of net income
Total recurring Level 3 assets 738 — (12) 128 (116) 240 (95) — (51) 832
Net investment income $ 14 $ 1 $ (16)
Liabilities
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives 41 90 14
Liabilities held for sale (462) (43) — — — — — (34) 23 (516)
Total included in net income $ 55 $ 91 $ (2)
Total recurring Level 3 liabilities $ (462) $ (43) $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ (34) $ 23 $ (516)
Assets
Total Level 3 gains (losses) included in net income Municipal $ 1 $ — $ —
For the years ended December 31, Corporate - public (5) — 1
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Corporate - privately placed — 3 (5)
Net investment income $ 15 $ 1 $ (16) Assets held for sale — — (5)
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives 61 124 15 Changes in unrealized net capital gains and losses reported in OCI $ (4) $ 3 $ (9)
Transfers into Level 3 during 2022, 2021 and 2020 Transfers out of Level 3 during 2022, 2021 and
included situations where a quote was not provided by 2020 included situations where a broker quote was Financial instruments not carried at fair value
the Company’s independent third-party valuation used in the prior period and a quote became available ($ in millions) December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
service provider and as a result the price was stale or from the Company’s independent third-party valuation Fair value Amortized Fair Amortized Fair
had been replaced with a broker quote where the service provider in the current period. A quote utilizing Financial assets level cost, net value cost, net value
inputs had not been corroborated to be market the new pricing source was not available as of the prior Mortgage loans Level 3 $ 762 $ 700 $ 821 $ 853
observable resulting in the security being classified as period, and any gains or losses related to the change in Bank loans Level 3 686 686 1,574 1,634
Level 3. valuation source for individual securities were not
significant. Fair value Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
Financial liabilities level value (1) value value (1) value
Contractholder funds on investment contracts Level 3 $ 50 $ 50 $ 55 $ 55
Debt Level 2 7,964 7,449 7,976 9,150
Liability for collateral Level 2 2,011 2,011 1,444 1,444
(1) Represents the amounts reported on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.
240 2022 Annual Report 241 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Rollforward of Level 3 assets and liabilities held at fair value during the year ended December 31, 2020 Valuation changes included in net income and OCI for Level 3 assets and liabilities held as of December 31,
Total gains ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Balance as inc (l l o u s d s e e d s ) i n : Transfers Balance as Assets
of of Fixed income securities:
December Net Into Out of December
($ in millions) 31, 2019 income OCI Level 3 Level 3 Purchases Sales Issues Settlements 31, 2020 Corporate - public $ — $ — $ (1)
Assets Corporate - privately placed 1 (2) —
Total fixed income securities 1 (2) (1)
Fixed income securities:
Equity securities 14 28 (1)
Municipal $ 22 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ (3) $ — $ (2) $ 17
Other investments 2 — —
Corporate - public 36 — 1 1 — 48 (19) — — 67
Other assets 38 65 —
Corporate - privately placed 32 — (5) 21 — 17 (2) — — 63
Total recurring Level 3 assets $ 55 $ 91 $ (2)
ABS 84 (1) — 54 (49) 59 (26) — (42) 79
Liabilities
Total fixed income securities 174 (1) (4) 76 (49) 124 (50) — (44) 226 Liabilities held for sale $ — $ — $ (43)
Equity securities 255 — — — — 57 (8) — — 304 Total recurring Level 3 liabilities — — (43)
Short-term investments 25 — — — (25) 35 — — — 35 Total included in net income $ 55 $ 91 $ (45)
Assets held for sale 284 1 (8) 52 (42) 24 (37) — (7) 267
Components of net income
Total recurring Level 3 assets 738 — (12) 128 (116) 240 (95) — (51) 832
Net investment income $ 14 $ 1 $ (16)
Liabilities
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives 41 90 14
Liabilities held for sale (462) (43) — — — — — (34) 23 (516)
Total included in net income $ 55 $ 91 $ (2)
Total recurring Level 3 liabilities $ (462) $ (43) $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ (34) $ 23 $ (516)
Assets
Total Level 3 gains (losses) included in net income Municipal $ 1 $ — $ —
For the years ended December 31, Corporate - public (5) — 1
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Corporate - privately placed — 3 (5)
Net investment income $ 15 $ 1 $ (16) Assets held for sale — — (5)
Net gains (losses) on investments and derivatives 61 124 15 Changes in unrealized net capital gains and losses reported in OCI $ (4) $ 3 $ (9)
Transfers into Level 3 during 2022, 2021 and 2020 Transfers out of Level 3 during 2022, 2021 and
included situations where a quote was not provided by 2020 included situations where a broker quote was Financial instruments not carried at fair value
the Company’s independent third-party valuation used in the prior period and a quote became available ($ in millions) December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
service provider and as a result the price was stale or from the Company’s independent third-party valuation Fair value Amortized Fair Amortized Fair
had been replaced with a broker quote where the service provider in the current period. A quote utilizing Financial assets level cost, net value cost, net value
inputs had not been corroborated to be market the new pricing source was not available as of the prior Mortgage loans Level 3 $ 762 $ 700 $ 821 $ 853
observable resulting in the security being classified as period, and any gains or losses related to the change in Bank loans Level 3 686 686 1,574 1,634
Level 3. valuation source for individual securities were not
significant. Fair value Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
Financial liabilities level value (1) value value (1) value
Contractholder funds on investment contracts Level 3 $ 50 $ 50 $ 55 $ 55
Debt Level 2 7,964 7,449 7,976 9,150
Liability for collateral Level 2 2,011 2,011 1,444 1,444
(1) Represents the amounts reported on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.
240 2022 Annual Report 241 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 7 Derivative Financial Instruments and Off-balance Sheet Financial Instruments Summary of the volume and fair value positions of derivative instruments as of December 31, 2022
Volume (1)
The Company uses derivatives for risk reduction The notional amounts specified in the contracts
Number Fair
and to increase investment portfolio returns through are used to calculate the exchange of contractual Notional of value, Gross Gross
asset replication. Risk reduction activity is focused on payments under the agreements and are generally not ($ in millions, except number of contracts) Balance sheet location amount contracts net asset liability
managing the risks with certain assets and liabilities representative of the potential for gain or loss on these Asset derivatives
arising from the potential adverse impacts from agreements. However, the notional amounts specified Derivatives not designated as accounting hedging instruments
changes in risk-free interest rates, changes in equity in credit default swaps where the Company has sold
Interest rate contracts
market valuations, increases in credit spreads and credit protection represent the maximum amount of
Futures Other assets n/a 24,380 $ 3 $ 3 $ —
foreign currency fluctuations. potential loss, assuming no recoveries.
Equity and index contracts
Asset replication refers to the “synthetic” creation Fair value, which is equal to the carrying value, is Futures Other assets n/a 343 — — —
of assets through the use of derivatives. The Company the estimated amount that the Company would receive Foreign currency contracts
replicates fixed income securities using a combination or pay to terminate the derivative contracts at the
Foreign currency forwards Other investments $ 354 n/a 1 14 (13)
of a credit default swap, index total return swap, reporting date. The carrying value amounts for OTC
Contingent consideration Other assets 250 n/a 103 103 —
options, futures, or a foreign currency forward contract derivatives are further adjusted for the effects, if any,
Credit default contracts
and one or more highly rated fixed income securities, of enforceable master netting agreements and are
Credit default swaps – buying protection Other investments 24 n/a — 1 (1)
primarily investment grade host bonds, to synthetically presented on a net basis, by counterparty agreement,
replicate the economic characteristics of one or more in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Total asset derivatives $ 628 24,723 $ 107 $ 121 $ (14)
cash market securities. The Company replicates equity
For those derivatives which qualify and have been
securities using futures, index total return swaps, and Liability derivatives
designated as fair value accounting hedges, net
options to increase equity exposure. Derivatives not designated as accounting hedging instruments
income includes the changes in the fair value of both
Interest rate contracts
Property-Liability may use interest rate swaps, the derivative instrument and the hedged risk. For
swaptions, futures and options to manage the interest cash flow hedges, gains and losses are amortized from Futures Other liabilities & accrued expenses n/a 1,624 $ — $ — $ —
rate risks of existing investments. These instruments AOCI and are reported in net income in the same Equity and index contracts
are utilized to change the duration of the portfolio in period the forecasted transactions being hedged Futures Other liabilities & accrued expenses n/a 1,229 (1) — (1)
order to offset the economic effect that interest rates impact net income. Foreign currency contracts
would otherwise have on the fair value of its fixed Foreign currency forwards Other liabilities & accrued expenses $ 283 n/a — 7 (7)
Non-hedge accounting is generally used for
income securities. Fixed income index total return
“portfolio” level hedging strategies where the terms of Credit default contracts
swaps are used to offset valuation losses in the fixed
the individual hedged items do not meet the strict Credit default swaps – buying protection Other liabilities & accrued expenses 525 n/a (3) 1 (4)
income portfolio during periods of declining market
homogeneity requirements to permit the application of Total liability derivatives 808 2,853 (4) $ 8 $ (12)
values. Credit default swaps are typically used to
hedge accounting. For non-hedge derivatives, net Total derivatives $ 1,436 27,576 $ 103
mitigate the credit risk within the Property-Liability
income includes changes in fair value and accrued
fixed income portfolio. Equity index total return swaps, periodic settlements, when applicable. With the (1) Volume for OTC and cleared derivative contracts is represented by their notional amounts. Volume for exchange traded
futures and options are used by Property-Liability to derivatives is represented by the number of contracts, which is the basis on which they are traded. (n/a = not applicable)
exception of non-hedge derivatives used for asset
offset valuation losses in the equity portfolio during
replication and non-hedge embedded derivatives, all of
periods of declining equity market values. In addition,
the Company’s derivatives are evaluated for their
equity futures are used to hedge the market risk
ongoing effectiveness as either accounting hedge or
related to deferred compensation liability contracts.
non-hedge derivative financial instruments on at least
Forward contracts are primarily used by Property-
a quarterly basis.
Liability to hedge foreign currency risk associated with
holding foreign currency denominated investments In connection with the sale of ALIC and certain
and foreign operations. affiliates in 2021, the sale agreement includes a
provision related to contingent consideration that may
Prior to December 31, 2022, the Company also had
be earned over a ten-year period with the first
derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts
potential payment date commencing on January 1,
that are required to be separated from the host
2026 and a final potential payment date of January 1,
contracts and accounted for at fair value with changes
2035. The contingent consideration is determined
in fair value of embedded derivatives reported in net
annually based on the average 10-year Treasury rate
income.
over the preceding 3-year period compared to a
When derivatives meet specific criteria, they may designated rate. The contingent consideration meets
be designated as accounting hedges and accounted the definition of a derivative and is accounted for on a
for as fair value, cash flow, foreign currency fair value or fair value basis with periodic changes in fair value
foreign currency cash flow hedges. reflected in earnings.
242 2022 Annual Report 243 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 7 Derivative Financial Instruments and Off-balance Sheet Financial Instruments Summary of the volume and fair value positions of derivative instruments as of December 31, 2022
Volume (1)
The Company uses derivatives for risk reduction The notional amounts specified in the contracts
Number Fair
and to increase investment portfolio returns through are used to calculate the exchange of contractual Notional of value, Gross Gross
asset replication. Risk reduction activity is focused on payments under the agreements and are generally not ($ in millions, except number of contracts) Balance sheet location amount contracts net asset liability
managing the risks with certain assets and liabilities representative of the potential for gain or loss on these Asset derivatives
arising from the potential adverse impacts from agreements. However, the notional amounts specified Derivatives not designated as accounting hedging instruments
changes in risk-free interest rates, changes in equity in credit default swaps where the Company has sold
Interest rate contracts
market valuations, increases in credit spreads and credit protection represent the maximum amount of
Futures Other assets n/a 24,380 $ 3 $ 3 $ —
foreign currency fluctuations. potential loss, assuming no recoveries.
Equity and index contracts
Asset replication refers to the “synthetic” creation Fair value, which is equal to the carrying value, is Futures Other assets n/a 343 — — —
of assets through the use of derivatives. The Company the estimated amount that the Company would receive Foreign currency contracts
replicates fixed income securities using a combination or pay to terminate the derivative contracts at the
Foreign currency forwards Other investments $ 354 n/a 1 14 (13)
of a credit default swap, index total return swap, reporting date. The carrying value amounts for OTC
Contingent consideration Other assets 250 n/a 103 103 —
options, futures, or a foreign currency forward contract derivatives are further adjusted for the effects, if any,
Credit default contracts
and one or more highly rated fixed income securities, of enforceable master netting agreements and are
Credit default swaps – buying protection Other investments 24 n/a — 1 (1)
primarily investment grade host bonds, to synthetically presented on a net basis, by counterparty agreement,
replicate the economic characteristics of one or more in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Total asset derivatives $ 628 24,723 $ 107 $ 121 $ (14)
cash market securities. The Company replicates equity
For those derivatives which qualify and have been
securities using futures, index total return swaps, and Liability derivatives
designated as fair value accounting hedges, net
options to increase equity exposure. Derivatives not designated as accounting hedging instruments
income includes the changes in the fair value of both
Interest rate contracts
Property-Liability may use interest rate swaps, the derivative instrument and the hedged risk. For
swaptions, futures and options to manage the interest cash flow hedges, gains and losses are amortized from Futures Other liabilities & accrued expenses n/a 1,624 $ — $ — $ —
rate risks of existing investments. These instruments AOCI and are reported in net income in the same Equity and index contracts
are utilized to change the duration of the portfolio in period the forecasted transactions being hedged Futures Other liabilities & accrued expenses n/a 1,229 (1) — (1)
order to offset the economic effect that interest rates impact net income. Foreign currency contracts
would otherwise have on the fair value of its fixed Foreign currency forwards Other liabilities & accrued expenses $ 283 n/a — 7 (7)
Non-hedge accounting is generally used for
income securities. Fixed income index total return
“portfolio” level hedging strategies where the terms of Credit default contracts
swaps are used to offset valuation losses in the fixed
the individual hedged items do not meet the strict Credit default swaps – buying protection Other liabilities & accrued expenses 525 n/a (3) 1 (4)
income portfolio during periods of declining market
homogeneity requirements to permit the application of Total liability derivatives 808 2,853 (4) $ 8 $ (12)
values. Credit default swaps are typically used to
hedge accounting. For non-hedge derivatives, net Total derivatives $ 1,436 27,576 $ 103
mitigate the credit risk within the Property-Liability
income includes changes in fair value and accrued
fixed income portfolio. Equity index total return swaps, periodic settlements, when applicable. With the (1) Volume for OTC and cleared derivative contracts is represented by their notional amounts. Volume for exchange traded
futures and options are used by Property-Liability to derivatives is represented by the number of contracts, which is the basis on which they are traded. (n/a = not applicable)
exception of non-hedge derivatives used for asset
offset valuation losses in the equity portfolio during
replication and non-hedge embedded derivatives, all of
periods of declining equity market values. In addition,
the Company’s derivatives are evaluated for their
equity futures are used to hedge the market risk
ongoing effectiveness as either accounting hedge or
related to deferred compensation liability contracts.
non-hedge derivative financial instruments on at least
Forward contracts are primarily used by Property-
a quarterly basis.
Liability to hedge foreign currency risk associated with
holding foreign currency denominated investments In connection with the sale of ALIC and certain
and foreign operations. affiliates in 2021, the sale agreement includes a
provision related to contingent consideration that may
Prior to December 31, 2022, the Company also had
be earned over a ten-year period with the first
derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts
potential payment date commencing on January 1,
that are required to be separated from the host
2026 and a final potential payment date of January 1,
contracts and accounted for at fair value with changes
2035. The contingent consideration is determined
in fair value of embedded derivatives reported in net
annually based on the average 10-year Treasury rate
income.
over the preceding 3-year period compared to a
When derivatives meet specific criteria, they may designated rate. The contingent consideration meets
be designated as accounting hedges and accounted the definition of a derivative and is accounted for on a
for as fair value, cash flow, foreign currency fair value or fair value basis with periodic changes in fair value
foreign currency cash flow hedges. reflected in earnings.
242 2022 Annual Report 243 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Summary of the volume and fair value positions of derivative instruments as of December 31, 2021 Gains (losses) from valuation and settlements reported on derivatives not designated as accounting hedges
Volume (1)
Number Fair
Notional of value, Gross Gross Total gain
($ in millions, except number of contracts) Balance sheet location amount contracts net asset liability Net gains (loss)
(losses) on Accident, (Loss) recognized in
Asset derivatives investments health and Operating income from net income
Derivatives not designated as accounting hedging instruments and other policy costs and discontinued on
($ in millions) derivatives benefits expenses operations derivatives
Interest rate contracts
2022
Futures Other assets n/a 1,181 $ 1 $ 1 $ —
Interest rate contracts $ 737 $ — $ — $ — $ 737
Equity and index contracts
Equity and index contracts 94 — (43) — 51
Options Other investments n/a 61 5 5 —
Contingent consideration — — 38 — 38
Futures Other assets n/a 113 — — —
Foreign currency contracts 47 — (6) — 41
Foreign currency contracts
Credit default contracts (4) — — — (4)
Foreign currency forwards Other investments $ 2 n/a — — —
Other contracts — — (1) — (1)
Embedded derivative financial instruments Other investments 750 n/a — — —
Total $ 874 $ — $ (12) $ — $ 862
Contingent consideration Other assets 250 n/a 65 65 —
Credit default contracts
2021
Credit default swaps – buying protection Other investments 33 n/a (1) — (1)
Interest rate contracts $ 22 $ — $ — $ — $ 22
Credit default swaps – selling protection Other investments 250 n/a 6 6 —
Equity and index contracts (7) 27 45 — 65
Total asset derivatives $ 1,285 1,355 $ 76 $ 77 $ (1)
Contingent consideration — — — 65 65
Foreign currency contracts 32 — — — 32
Liability derivatives
Credit default contracts 7 — — — 7
Derivatives not designated as accounting hedging instruments
Total return swaps - fixed income 4 — — — 4
Interest rate contracts
Total $ 58 $ 27 $ 45 $ 65 $ 195
Futures Other liabilities & accrued expenses n/a 36,668 $ (2) $ — $ (2)
Equity and index contracts
2020
Futures Other liabilities & accrued expenses n/a 1,260 (1) — (1)
Interest rate contracts $ 36 $ — $ — $ — $ 36
Foreign currency contracts
Equity and index contracts 15 — 29 — 44
Foreign currency forwards Other liabilities & accrued expenses 715 n/a 16 23 (7)
Foreign currency contracts (13) — — — (13)
Credit default contracts
Credit default contracts 6 — — — 6
Credit default swaps – buying protection Other liabilities & accrued expenses 70 n/a (4) — (4)
Total return swaps - fixed income 1 — — — 1
Credit default swaps – selling protection Other liabilities & accrued expenses 5 n/a — — —
Total return swaps - equity 4 — — — 4
Total liability derivatives 790 37,928 9 $ 23 $ (14)
Total $ 49 $ — $ 29 $ — $ 78
Total derivatives $ 2,075 39,283 $ 85
(1) Volume for OTC and cleared derivative contracts is represented by their notional amounts. Volume for exchange traded The Company manages its exposure to credit risk The Company has not incurred any losses on
derivatives is represented by the number of contracts, which is the basis on which they are traded. (n/a = not applicable) by utilizing highly rated counterparties, establishing derivative financial instruments due to counterparty
Gross and net amounts for OTC derivatives (1) risk control limits, executing legally enforceable master nonperformance. Other derivatives, including futures
netting agreements (“MNAs”) and obtaining collateral and certain option contracts, are traded on organized
Offsets
where appropriate. The Company uses MNAs for OTC exchanges which require margin deposits and
Cash Net Securities
derivative transactions that permit either party to net guarantee the execution of trades, thereby mitigating
Counter- collateral amount on collateral
Gross party (received) balance (received) Net payments due for transactions and collateral is either any potential credit risk.
($ in millions) amount netting pledged sheet pledged amount pledged or obtained when certain predetermined
Counterparty credit exposure represents the
December 31, 2022 exposure limits are exceeded.
Company’s potential loss if all of the counterparties
Asset derivatives $ 23 $ (22) $ — $ 1 $ — $ 1 OTC cash and securities collateral pledged concurrently fail to perform under the contractual
Liability derivatives (22) 22 (1) (1) — (1) terms of the contracts and all collateral, if any,
($ in millions) December 31, 2022
becomes worthless. This exposure is measured by the
Pledged by the Company $ 11
December 31, 2021 fair value of OTC derivative contracts with a positive
Pledged to the Company (1) 12
Asset derivatives $ 23 $ (24) $ 2 $ 1 $ — $ 1 fair value at the reporting date reduced by the effect, if
Liability derivatives (10) 24 (17) (3) — (3) (1) $10 million of collateral was posted under MNAs for any, of legally enforceable master netting agreements.
contracts containing credit-risk-contingent provisions that
(1) All OTC derivatives are subject to enforceable master netting agreements. are in a liability provision.
244 2022 Annual Report 245 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Summary of the volume and fair value positions of derivative instruments as of December 31, 2021 Gains (losses) from valuation and settlements reported on derivatives not designated as accounting hedges
Volume (1)
Number Fair
Notional of value, Gross Gross Total gain
($ in millions, except number of contracts) Balance sheet location amount contracts net asset liability Net gains (loss)
(losses) on Accident, (Loss) recognized in
Asset derivatives investments health and Operating income from net income
Derivatives not designated as accounting hedging instruments and other policy costs and discontinued on
($ in millions) derivatives benefits expenses operations derivatives
Interest rate contracts
2022
Futures Other assets n/a 1,181 $ 1 $ 1 $ —
Interest rate contracts $ 737 $ — $ — $ — $ 737
Equity and index contracts
Equity and index contracts 94 — (43) — 51
Options Other investments n/a 61 5 5 —
Contingent consideration — — 38 — 38
Futures Other assets n/a 113 — — —
Foreign currency contracts 47 — (6) — 41
Foreign currency contracts
Credit default contracts (4) — — — (4)
Foreign currency forwards Other investments $ 2 n/a — — —
Other contracts — — (1) — (1)
Embedded derivative financial instruments Other investments 750 n/a — — —
Total $ 874 $ — $ (12) $ — $ 862
Contingent consideration Other assets 250 n/a 65 65 —
Credit default contracts
2021
Credit default swaps – buying protection Other investments 33 n/a (1) — (1)
Interest rate contracts $ 22 $ — $ — $ — $ 22
Credit default swaps – selling protection Other investments 250 n/a 6 6 —
Equity and index contracts (7) 27 45 — 65
Total asset derivatives $ 1,285 1,355 $ 76 $ 77 $ (1)
Contingent consideration — — — 65 65
Foreign currency contracts 32 — — — 32
Liability derivatives
Credit default contracts 7 — — — 7
Derivatives not designated as accounting hedging instruments
Total return swaps - fixed income 4 — — — 4
Interest rate contracts
Total $ 58 $ 27 $ 45 $ 65 $ 195
Futures Other liabilities & accrued expenses n/a 36,668 $ (2) $ — $ (2)
Equity and index contracts
2020
Futures Other liabilities & accrued expenses n/a 1,260 (1) — (1)
Interest rate contracts $ 36 $ — $ — $ — $ 36
Foreign currency contracts
Equity and index contracts 15 — 29 — 44
Foreign currency forwards Other liabilities & accrued expenses 715 n/a 16 23 (7)
Foreign currency contracts (13) — — — (13)
Credit default contracts
Credit default contracts 6 — — — 6
Credit default swaps – buying protection Other liabilities & accrued expenses 70 n/a (4) — (4)
Total return swaps - fixed income 1 — — — 1
Credit default swaps – selling protection Other liabilities & accrued expenses 5 n/a — — —
Total return swaps - equity 4 — — — 4
Total liability derivatives 790 37,928 9 $ 23 $ (14)
Total $ 49 $ — $ 29 $ — $ 78
Total derivatives $ 2,075 39,283 $ 85
(1) Volume for OTC and cleared derivative contracts is represented by their notional amounts. Volume for exchange traded The Company manages its exposure to credit risk The Company has not incurred any losses on
derivatives is represented by the number of contracts, which is the basis on which they are traded. (n/a = not applicable) by utilizing highly rated counterparties, establishing derivative financial instruments due to counterparty
Gross and net amounts for OTC derivatives (1) risk control limits, executing legally enforceable master nonperformance. Other derivatives, including futures
netting agreements (“MNAs”) and obtaining collateral and certain option contracts, are traded on organized
Offsets
where appropriate. The Company uses MNAs for OTC exchanges which require margin deposits and
Cash Net Securities
derivative transactions that permit either party to net guarantee the execution of trades, thereby mitigating
Counter- collateral amount on collateral
Gross party (received) balance (received) Net payments due for transactions and collateral is either any potential credit risk.
($ in millions) amount netting pledged sheet pledged amount pledged or obtained when certain predetermined
Counterparty credit exposure represents the
December 31, 2022 exposure limits are exceeded.
Company’s potential loss if all of the counterparties
Asset derivatives $ 23 $ (22) $ — $ 1 $ — $ 1 OTC cash and securities collateral pledged concurrently fail to perform under the contractual
Liability derivatives (22) 22 (1) (1) — (1) terms of the contracts and all collateral, if any,
($ in millions) December 31, 2022
becomes worthless. This exposure is measured by the
Pledged by the Company $ 11
December 31, 2021 fair value of OTC derivative contracts with a positive
Pledged to the Company (1) 12
Asset derivatives $ 23 $ (24) $ 2 $ 1 $ — $ 1 fair value at the reporting date reduced by the effect, if
Liability derivatives (10) 24 (17) (3) — (3) (1) $10 million of collateral was posted under MNAs for any, of legally enforceable master netting agreements.
contracts containing credit-risk-contingent provisions that
(1) All OTC derivatives are subject to enforceable master netting agreements. are in a liability provision.
244 2022 Annual Report 245 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
OTC derivatives counterparty credit exposure by counterparty credit rating CDS notional amounts by credit rating and fair value of protection sold
($ in millions) December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 Notional amount
BB and
Number of Exposure, Number of Exposure,
($ in millions) AAA AA A BBB lower Total Fair value
counter- Notional Credit net of counter- Notional Credit net of
Rating (1) parties amount (2) exposure (2) collateral (2) parties amount (2) exposure (2) collateral (2) December 31, 2021
A+ 1 $ 128 $ 5 $ — 1 $ 199 $ 7 $ — Single name
A 1 192 7 — 1 367 9 — Corporate debt $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 5 $ 5 $ —
Total 2 $ 320 $ 12 $ — 2 $ 566 $ 16 $ — Index
Corporate debt 2 4 46 190 8 250 6
(1) Allstate uses the lower of S&P’s or Moody’s long-term debt issuer ratings.
Total $ 2 $ 4 $ 46 $ 190 $ 13 $ 255 $ 6
(2)Only OTC derivatives with a net positive fair value are included for each counterparty.
For certain exchange traded and cleared Certain of the Company’s derivative transactions In selling protection with CDS, the Company sells par and the prescribed value of the reference asset.
derivatives, margin deposits are required as well as contain credit-risk-contingent termination events and credit protection on an identified single name or credit When a credit event occurs in a single name or FTD
daily cash settlements of margin accounts. cross-default provisions. Credit-risk-contingent derivative index (“CDX”) that is generally investment basket (for FTD, the first credit event occurring for any
termination events allow the counterparties to grade, and in return receives periodic premiums one name in the basket), the contract terminates at the
Exchange traded and cleared margin deposits terminate the derivative agreement or a specific trade through expiration or termination of the agreement. time of settlement. For CDX, the reference entity’s
($ in millions) December 31, 2022 on certain dates if AIC’s financial strength credit With single name CDS, this premium or credit spread name incurring the credit event is removed from the
Pledged by the Company $ 177 ratings by Moody’s or S&P fall below a certain level. generally corresponds to the difference between the index while the contract continues until expiration. The
Received by the Company — Credit-risk-contingent cross-default provisions allow yield on the reference entity’s public fixed maturity maximum payout on a CDS is the contract notional
the counterparties to terminate the derivative cash instruments and swap rates at the time the amount. A physical settlement may afford the
Market risk is the risk that the Company will incur agreement if the Company defaults by pre-determined agreement is executed. CDX is utilized to take a Company with recovery rights as the new owner of the
losses due to adverse changes in market rates and threshold amounts on certain debt instruments. position on multiple (generally 125) reference entities. asset.
prices. Market risk exists for all of the derivative Credit events are typically defined as bankruptcy,
The following table summarizes the fair value of The Company monitors risk associated with credit
financial instruments the Company currently holds, as failure to pay, or restructuring, depending on the
derivative instruments with termination, cross-default derivatives through individual name credit limits at
these instruments may become less valuable due to nature of the reference entities. If a credit event
or collateral credit-risk-contingent features that are in both a credit derivative and a combined cash
adverse changes in market conditions. To limit this risk, occurs, the Company settles with the counterparty,
a liability position, as well as the fair value of assets instrument/credit derivative level. The ratings of
the Company’s senior management has established either through physical settlement or cash settlement.
and collateral that are netted against the liability in individual names for which protection has been sold
risk control limits. In addition, changes in fair value of In a physical settlement, a reference asset is delivered
accordance with provisions within legally enforceable are also monitored.
the derivative financial instruments that the Company by the buyer of protection to the Company, in
MNAs.
uses for risk management purposes are generally exchange for cash payment at par, whereas in a cash
offset by the change in the fair value or cash flows of settlement, the Company pays the difference between
the hedged risk component of the related assets,
Off-balance sheet financial instruments
liabilities or forecasted transactions.
Commitments to invest, commitments to purchase private placement securities, commitments to fund loans,
($ in millions) December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
financial guarantees and credit guarantees have off-balance sheet risk because their contractual amounts are not
Gross liability fair value of contracts containing credit-risk- recorded in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.
contingent features $ 21 $ 8
Gross asset fair value of contracts containing credit-risk- Contractual amounts of off-balance sheet financial instruments
contingent features and subject to MNAs (11) (7) As of December 31,
Collateral posted under MNAs for contracts containing credit-risk- ($ in millions) 2022 2021
contingent features (10) —
Commitments to invest in limited partnership interests $ 2,778 $ 2,720
Maximum amount of additional exposure for contracts with
Private placement commitments 114 104
credit-risk-contingent features if all features were triggered
concurrently $ — $ 1 Other loan commitments 10 16
Credit derivatives - selling protection In the preceding table, the contractual amounts Private placement commitments represent
represent the amount at risk if the contract is fully commitments to purchase private placement debt and
A credit default swap (“CDS”) is a derivative instrument, representing an agreement between two parties to drawn upon, the counterparty defaults and the value of private equity securities at a future date. The Company
exchange the credit risk of a specified entity (or a group of entities), or an index based on the credit risk of a group of any underlying security becomes worthless. Unless enters into these agreements in the normal course of
entities (all commonly referred to as the “reference entity” or a portfolio of “reference entities”), in return for a periodic noted otherwise, the Company does not require business. The fair value of the debt commitments
premium. In selling protection, CDS are used to replicate fixed income securities and to complement the cash market collateral or other security to support off-balance sheet generally cannot be estimated on the date the
when credit exposure to certain issuers is not available or when the derivative alternative is less expensive than the financial instruments with credit risk. commitment is made as the terms and conditions of
cash market alternative. CDS typically have a five-year term. As of December 31, 2022, there were no open CDS the underlying private placement securities are not yet
positions. Commitments to invest in limited partnership final. Because the private equity securities are not
interests represent agreements to acquire new or
actively traded, it is not practical to estimate fair value
additional participation in certain limited partnership
of the commitments.
investments. The Company enters into these
agreements in the normal course of business. Because
the investments in limited partnerships are not actively
traded, it is not practical to estimate the fair value of
these commitments.
246 2022 Annual Report 247 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
OTC derivatives counterparty credit exposure by counterparty credit rating CDS notional amounts by credit rating and fair value of protection sold
($ in millions) December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 Notional amount
BB and
Number of Exposure, Number of Exposure,
($ in millions) AAA AA A BBB lower Total Fair value
counter- Notional Credit net of counter- Notional Credit net of
Rating (1) parties amount (2) exposure (2) collateral (2) parties amount (2) exposure (2) collateral (2) December 31, 2021
A+ 1 $ 128 $ 5 $ — 1 $ 199 $ 7 $ — Single name
A 1 192 7 — 1 367 9 — Corporate debt $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 5 $ 5 $ —
Total 2 $ 320 $ 12 $ — 2 $ 566 $ 16 $ — Index
Corporate debt 2 4 46 190 8 250 6
(1) Allstate uses the lower of S&P’s or Moody’s long-term debt issuer ratings.
Total $ 2 $ 4 $ 46 $ 190 $ 13 $ 255 $ 6
(2)Only OTC derivatives with a net positive fair value are included for each counterparty.
For certain exchange traded and cleared Certain of the Company’s derivative transactions In selling protection with CDS, the Company sells par and the prescribed value of the reference asset.
derivatives, margin deposits are required as well as contain credit-risk-contingent termination events and credit protection on an identified single name or credit When a credit event occurs in a single name or FTD
daily cash settlements of margin accounts. cross-default provisions. Credit-risk-contingent derivative index (“CDX”) that is generally investment basket (for FTD, the first credit event occurring for any
termination events allow the counterparties to grade, and in return receives periodic premiums one name in the basket), the contract terminates at the
Exchange traded and cleared margin deposits terminate the derivative agreement or a specific trade through expiration or termination of the agreement. time of settlement. For CDX, the reference entity’s
($ in millions) December 31, 2022 on certain dates if AIC’s financial strength credit With single name CDS, this premium or credit spread name incurring the credit event is removed from the
Pledged by the Company $ 177 ratings by Moody’s or S&P fall below a certain level. generally corresponds to the difference between the index while the contract continues until expiration. The
Received by the Company — Credit-risk-contingent cross-default provisions allow yield on the reference entity’s public fixed maturity maximum payout on a CDS is the contract notional
the counterparties to terminate the derivative cash instruments and swap rates at the time the amount. A physical settlement may afford the
Market risk is the risk that the Company will incur agreement if the Company defaults by pre-determined agreement is executed. CDX is utilized to take a Company with recovery rights as the new owner of the
losses due to adverse changes in market rates and threshold amounts on certain debt instruments. position on multiple (generally 125) reference entities. asset.
prices. Market risk exists for all of the derivative Credit events are typically defined as bankruptcy,
The following table summarizes the fair value of The Company monitors risk associated with credit
financial instruments the Company currently holds, as failure to pay, or restructuring, depending on the
derivative instruments with termination, cross-default derivatives through individual name credit limits at
these instruments may become less valuable due to nature of the reference entities. If a credit event
or collateral credit-risk-contingent features that are in both a credit derivative and a combined cash
adverse changes in market conditions. To limit this risk, occurs, the Company settles with the counterparty,
a liability position, as well as the fair value of assets instrument/credit derivative level. The ratings of
the Company’s senior management has established either through physical settlement or cash settlement.
and collateral that are netted against the liability in individual names for which protection has been sold
risk control limits. In addition, changes in fair value of In a physical settlement, a reference asset is delivered
accordance with provisions within legally enforceable are also monitored.
the derivative financial instruments that the Company by the buyer of protection to the Company, in
MNAs.
uses for risk management purposes are generally exchange for cash payment at par, whereas in a cash
offset by the change in the fair value or cash flows of settlement, the Company pays the difference between
the hedged risk component of the related assets,
Off-balance sheet financial instruments
liabilities or forecasted transactions.
Commitments to invest, commitments to purchase private placement securities, commitments to fund loans,
($ in millions) December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
financial guarantees and credit guarantees have off-balance sheet risk because their contractual amounts are not
Gross liability fair value of contracts containing credit-risk- recorded in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.
contingent features $ 21 $ 8
Gross asset fair value of contracts containing credit-risk- Contractual amounts of off-balance sheet financial instruments
contingent features and subject to MNAs (11) (7) As of December 31,
Collateral posted under MNAs for contracts containing credit-risk- ($ in millions) 2022 2021
contingent features (10) —
Commitments to invest in limited partnership interests $ 2,778 $ 2,720
Maximum amount of additional exposure for contracts with
Private placement commitments 114 104
credit-risk-contingent features if all features were triggered
concurrently $ — $ 1 Other loan commitments 10 16
Credit derivatives - selling protection In the preceding table, the contractual amounts Private placement commitments represent
represent the amount at risk if the contract is fully commitments to purchase private placement debt and
A credit default swap (“CDS”) is a derivative instrument, representing an agreement between two parties to drawn upon, the counterparty defaults and the value of private equity securities at a future date. The Company
exchange the credit risk of a specified entity (or a group of entities), or an index based on the credit risk of a group of any underlying security becomes worthless. Unless enters into these agreements in the normal course of
entities (all commonly referred to as the “reference entity” or a portfolio of “reference entities”), in return for a periodic noted otherwise, the Company does not require business. The fair value of the debt commitments
premium. In selling protection, CDS are used to replicate fixed income securities and to complement the cash market collateral or other security to support off-balance sheet generally cannot be estimated on the date the
when credit exposure to certain issuers is not available or when the derivative alternative is less expensive than the financial instruments with credit risk. commitment is made as the terms and conditions of
cash market alternative. CDS typically have a five-year term. As of December 31, 2022, there were no open CDS the underlying private placement securities are not yet
positions. Commitments to invest in limited partnership final. Because the private equity securities are not
interests represent agreements to acquire new or
actively traded, it is not practical to estimate fair value
additional participation in certain limited partnership
of the commitments.
investments. The Company enters into these
agreements in the normal course of business. Because
the investments in limited partnerships are not actively
traded, it is not practical to estimate the fair value of
these commitments.
246 2022 Annual Report 247 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Other loan commitments are agreements to lend unconditionally cancellable, the Company recognizes a have resulted in higher parts costs, used car values Because reserves are estimates of unpaid portions
to a borrower provided there is no violation of any credit loss allowance on such commitments. and longer time to claim resolution, which have of losses that have occurred, including IBNR losses, the
condition established in the contract. The Company Commitments have either fixed or varying expiration combined with labor shortages to increase physical establishment of appropriate reserves, including
enters into these agreements to commit to future loan dates or other termination clauses. The fair value of damage loss costs. Medical inflation, treatment trends, reserves for catastrophes, Run-off Property-Liability
fundings at predetermined interest rates. Unless these commitments is insignificant. attorney representation, litigation costs and more and reinsurance and indemnification recoverables, is
severe accidents have contributed to higher third- an inherently uncertain and complex process. The
Note 8 Variable Interest Entities
party bodily injury loss costs. The company has also ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from
digitized and modified claim processes to increase recorded amounts, which are based on management’s
Consolidated VIEs, of which the Company is the In the event of dissolution, policyholders would effectiveness and efficiency. These factors may lead to best estimates.
primary beneficiary, primarily include Adirondack share any residual unassigned surplus but are not historical development trends being less predictive of
Insurance Exchange, a New York reciprocal insurer, and subject to assessment for any deficit in unassigned future loss development, potentially creating additional The highest degree of uncertainty is associated
New Jersey Skylands Insurance Association, a New surplus of the Reciprocal Exchanges. The assets of the reserve variability. Generally, the initial reserves for a with reserves for losses incurred in the initial reporting
Jersey reciprocal insurer (together “Reciprocal Reciprocal Exchanges can be used only to settle the new accident year are established based on claim period as it contains the greatest proportion of losses
Exchanges”). The Reciprocal Exchanges are insurance obligations of the Reciprocal Exchanges and general frequency and severity assumptions for different that have not been reported or settled as well as
carriers organized as unincorporated associations. The creditors have no recourse to the Company. business segments, lines and coverages based on heightened uncertainty for claims that involve litigation
Company does not own the equity of the Reciprocal historical relationships to relevant inflation indicators. or take longer to settle during periods of rapidly
Exchanges, which is owned by their respective The results of operations of the Reciprocal Reserves for prior accident years are statistically increasing loss costs. The Company also has
policyholders. Exchanges are included in the Company’s Allstate determined using several different actuarial estimation uncertainty in the Run-off Property-Liability reserves
Protection segment and generated $164 million and that are based on events long since passed and are
methods. Changes in auto claim frequency may result
The Company manages the business operations of $181 million of earned premiums in 2022 and 2021, complicated by lack of historical data, legal
from changes in mix of business, driving behaviors,
the Reciprocal Exchanges and has the power to direct respectively. interpretations, unresolved legal issues and legislative
miles driven or other factors. Changes in auto current
their activities that most significantly impact their intent based on establishment of facts.
Claims and claims expenses were $130 million and year claim severity are generally influenced by inflation
economic performance. The Company receives a
management fee for the services provided to the $135 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively. in the medical and auto repair sectors, the The Company regularly updates its reserve
Reciprocal Exchanges. In addition, as of both effectiveness and efficiency of claim practices and estimates as new information becomes available and
December 31, 2022 and 2021, the Company holds changes in mix of claim types. The Company mitigates as events unfold that may affect the resolution of
interests of $123 million in the form of surplus notes these effects through various loss management unsettled claims. Changes in reserve estimates, which
included in other liabilities and expenses on the programs. When such changes in claim data occur, may be material, are reported in property and casualty
Statement of Assets and Liabilities of the Reciprocal actuarial judgment is used to determine appropriate insurance claims and claims expense in the
Exchanges that provide capital to the Reciprocal development factors to establish reserves. The Consolidated Statements of Operations in the period
Exchanges and would absorb any expected losses. The Company’s reserving process incorporates changes in such changes are determined.
loss patterns, operational statistics and changes in
Company is therefore the primary beneficiary. In
Management believes that the reserve for property
claims reporting processes to determine its best
addition, the Company provides quota share
and casualty insurance claims and claims expense, net
estimate of recorded reserves.
reinsurance on the property business of the Reciprocal
of recoverables, is appropriately established in the
Exchanges. As part of the reserving process, the Company may aggregate and adequate to cover the ultimate net cost
also supplement its claims processes by utilizing third- of reported and unreported claims arising from losses
Assets and liabilities of Reciprocal Exchanges
party adjusters, appraisers, engineers, inspectors, and which had occurred by the date of the Consolidated
($ in millions) December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 other professionals and information sources to assess Statements of Financial Position based on available
Assets and settle catastrophe and non-catastrophe related facts, laws and regulations.
Fixed income securities $ 302 $ 324 claims. The effects of inflation are implicitly considered
Short-term investments 13 30 in the reserving process.
Deferred policy acquisition costs 15 15
Premium installment and other receivables, net 43 42 Rollforward of reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense
Reinsurance recoverables, net 97 114 ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Other assets 90 82 Balance as of January 1 $ 33,060 $ 27,610 $ 27,712
Total assets 560 607 Less recoverables (1) (9,479) (7,033) (6,912)
Liabilities Net balance as of January 1 23,581 20,577 20,800
Reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense 209 226 National General acquisition as of January 4, 2021 — 1,797 —
Unearned premiums 171 175 SafeAuto acquisition as of October 1, 2021 — 134 —
Other liabilities and expenses 311 265 Incurred claims and claims expense related to:
Total liabilities $ 691 $ 666 Current year 35,523 29,196 22,437
Prior years 1,741 122 (436)
Note 9 Reserve for Property and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Total incurred 37,264 29,318 22,001
Claims and claims expense paid related to:
The Company establishes reserves for claims and in law and regulation, judicial decisions, and economic Current year (20,739) (18,438) (14,245)
claims expense on reported and unreported claims of conditions. Prior years (11,741) (9,807) (7,979)
insured losses. The Company’s reserving process takes Total paid (32,480) (28,245) (22,224)
When the Company experiences changes in the
into account known facts and interpretations of
mix or type of claims or changing claim settlement Net balance as of December 31 28,365 23,581 20,577
circumstances and factors including the Company’s
patterns or data, it applies actuarial judgment in the Plus recoverables 9,176 9,479 7,033
experience with similar cases, actual claims paid,
determination and selection of development factors to Balance as of December 31 $ 37,541 $ 33,060 $ 27,610
historical trends involving claim payment patterns and
develop reserve liabilities. For example, the
pending levels of unpaid claims, loss management (1) Recoverables comprises reinsurance and indemnification recoverables. See Note 11 for further details.
Coronavirus has had a significant impact on driving
programs, product mix and contractual terms, changes
patterns and auto frequency. Supply chain disruptions
248 2022 Annual Report 249 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Other loan commitments are agreements to lend unconditionally cancellable, the Company recognizes a have resulted in higher parts costs, used car values Because reserves are estimates of unpaid portions
to a borrower provided there is no violation of any credit loss allowance on such commitments. and longer time to claim resolution, which have of losses that have occurred, including IBNR losses, the
condition established in the contract. The Company Commitments have either fixed or varying expiration combined with labor shortages to increase physical establishment of appropriate reserves, including
enters into these agreements to commit to future loan dates or other termination clauses. The fair value of damage loss costs. Medical inflation, treatment trends, reserves for catastrophes, Run-off Property-Liability
fundings at predetermined interest rates. Unless these commitments is insignificant. attorney representation, litigation costs and more and reinsurance and indemnification recoverables, is
severe accidents have contributed to higher third- an inherently uncertain and complex process. The
Note 8 Variable Interest Entities
party bodily injury loss costs. The company has also ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from
digitized and modified claim processes to increase recorded amounts, which are based on management’s
Consolidated VIEs, of which the Company is the In the event of dissolution, policyholders would effectiveness and efficiency. These factors may lead to best estimates.
primary beneficiary, primarily include Adirondack share any residual unassigned surplus but are not historical development trends being less predictive of
Insurance Exchange, a New York reciprocal insurer, and subject to assessment for any deficit in unassigned future loss development, potentially creating additional The highest degree of uncertainty is associated
New Jersey Skylands Insurance Association, a New surplus of the Reciprocal Exchanges. The assets of the reserve variability. Generally, the initial reserves for a with reserves for losses incurred in the initial reporting
Jersey reciprocal insurer (together “Reciprocal Reciprocal Exchanges can be used only to settle the new accident year are established based on claim period as it contains the greatest proportion of losses
Exchanges”). The Reciprocal Exchanges are insurance obligations of the Reciprocal Exchanges and general frequency and severity assumptions for different that have not been reported or settled as well as
carriers organized as unincorporated associations. The creditors have no recourse to the Company. business segments, lines and coverages based on heightened uncertainty for claims that involve litigation
Company does not own the equity of the Reciprocal historical relationships to relevant inflation indicators. or take longer to settle during periods of rapidly
Exchanges, which is owned by their respective The results of operations of the Reciprocal Reserves for prior accident years are statistically increasing loss costs. The Company also has
policyholders. Exchanges are included in the Company’s Allstate determined using several different actuarial estimation uncertainty in the Run-off Property-Liability reserves
Protection segment and generated $164 million and that are based on events long since passed and are
methods. Changes in auto claim frequency may result
The Company manages the business operations of $181 million of earned premiums in 2022 and 2021, complicated by lack of historical data, legal
from changes in mix of business, driving behaviors,
the Reciprocal Exchanges and has the power to direct respectively. interpretations, unresolved legal issues and legislative
miles driven or other factors. Changes in auto current
their activities that most significantly impact their intent based on establishment of facts.
Claims and claims expenses were $130 million and year claim severity are generally influenced by inflation
economic performance. The Company receives a
management fee for the services provided to the $135 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively. in the medical and auto repair sectors, the The Company regularly updates its reserve
Reciprocal Exchanges. In addition, as of both effectiveness and efficiency of claim practices and estimates as new information becomes available and
December 31, 2022 and 2021, the Company holds changes in mix of claim types. The Company mitigates as events unfold that may affect the resolution of
interests of $123 million in the form of surplus notes these effects through various loss management unsettled claims. Changes in reserve estimates, which
included in other liabilities and expenses on the programs. When such changes in claim data occur, may be material, are reported in property and casualty
Statement of Assets and Liabilities of the Reciprocal actuarial judgment is used to determine appropriate insurance claims and claims expense in the
Exchanges that provide capital to the Reciprocal development factors to establish reserves. The Consolidated Statements of Operations in the period
Exchanges and would absorb any expected losses. The Company’s reserving process incorporates changes in such changes are determined.
loss patterns, operational statistics and changes in
Company is therefore the primary beneficiary. In
Management believes that the reserve for property
claims reporting processes to determine its best
addition, the Company provides quota share
and casualty insurance claims and claims expense, net
estimate of recorded reserves.
reinsurance on the property business of the Reciprocal
of recoverables, is appropriately established in the
Exchanges. As part of the reserving process, the Company may aggregate and adequate to cover the ultimate net cost
also supplement its claims processes by utilizing third- of reported and unreported claims arising from losses
Assets and liabilities of Reciprocal Exchanges
party adjusters, appraisers, engineers, inspectors, and which had occurred by the date of the Consolidated
($ in millions) December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 other professionals and information sources to assess Statements of Financial Position based on available
Assets and settle catastrophe and non-catastrophe related facts, laws and regulations.
Fixed income securities $ 302 $ 324 claims. The effects of inflation are implicitly considered
Short-term investments 13 30 in the reserving process.
Deferred policy acquisition costs 15 15
Premium installment and other receivables, net 43 42 Rollforward of reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense
Reinsurance recoverables, net 97 114 ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Other assets 90 82 Balance as of January 1 $ 33,060 $ 27,610 $ 27,712
Total assets 560 607 Less recoverables (1) (9,479) (7,033) (6,912)
Liabilities Net balance as of January 1 23,581 20,577 20,800
Reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense 209 226 National General acquisition as of January 4, 2021 — 1,797 —
Unearned premiums 171 175 SafeAuto acquisition as of October 1, 2021 — 134 —
Other liabilities and expenses 311 265 Incurred claims and claims expense related to:
Total liabilities $ 691 $ 666 Current year 35,523 29,196 22,437
Prior years 1,741 122 (436)
Note 9 Reserve for Property and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Total incurred 37,264 29,318 22,001
Claims and claims expense paid related to:
The Company establishes reserves for claims and in law and regulation, judicial decisions, and economic Current year (20,739) (18,438) (14,245)
claims expense on reported and unreported claims of conditions. Prior years (11,741) (9,807) (7,979)
insured losses. The Company’s reserving process takes Total paid (32,480) (28,245) (22,224)
When the Company experiences changes in the
into account known facts and interpretations of
mix or type of claims or changing claim settlement Net balance as of December 31 28,365 23,581 20,577
circumstances and factors including the Company’s
patterns or data, it applies actuarial judgment in the Plus recoverables 9,176 9,479 7,033
experience with similar cases, actual claims paid,
determination and selection of development factors to Balance as of December 31 $ 37,541 $ 33,060 $ 27,610
historical trends involving claim payment patterns and
develop reserve liabilities. For example, the
pending levels of unpaid claims, loss management (1) Recoverables comprises reinsurance and indemnification recoverables. See Note 11 for further details.
Coronavirus has had a significant impact on driving
programs, product mix and contractual terms, changes
patterns and auto frequency. Supply chain disruptions
248 2022 Annual Report 249 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Reconciliation of total claims and claims expense incurred and paid by coverage years. The estimate of the year-to-date current report year claim severity increased in the fourth quarter for bodily
December 31, 2022 injury and physical damage coverages to reflect continued increases in loss costs.
($ in millions) Incurred Paid Personal auto insurance claim frequency has continued to increase, but remains below 2019 levels. Late reported
Allstate Protection claim frequency attributable to prior accident years also impacted reserve reestimates.
Auto insurance - liability coverage $ 14,376 $ (11,173)
Unfavorable reserve reestimates for commercial are primarily from auto injury coverages for both shared economy
Auto insurance - physical damage coverage 9,411 (8,802)
and traditional segments with a large portion of the traditional segment increase related to states where the Company
Homeowners insurance 6,971 (5,977)
will no longer be selling new business.
Total auto and homeowners insurance 30,758 (25,952)
The following presents information about incurred and paid claims development as of December 31, 2022, net of
Other personal lines 1,520 (1,317)
recoverables, as well as the cumulative number of reported claims and the total of IBNR reserves plus expected
Commercial lines 1,256 (817)
development on reported claims included in the net incurred claims amounts. See Note 2 for the accounting policy and
Protection Services 440 (438)
methodology for determining reserves for claims and claims expense, including both reported and IBNR claims. The
Run-off Property-Liability 116 (86)
cumulative number of reported claims is identified by coverage and excludes reported claims for industry pools and
Unallocated loss adjustment expenses (“ULAE”) 3,048 (2,847) facilities where information is not available. The information about incurred and paid claims development for the 2018
Claims incurred and paid from before 2018 80 (787) to 2022 years, and the average annual percentage payout of incurred claims by age as of December 31, 2022, is
Other (1) 46 (236) presented as required supplementary information.
Total $ 37,264 $ (32,480)
Auto insurance – liability coverage
(1) Paid and incurred amounts primarily related to the effect of foreign currency translation adjustments. Additionally, paid includes
IBNR
the acquisition of SafeAuto. ($ in millions,
reserves plus Cumulative
except
Incurred claims and claims expense represents the The Company calculates and records a single best number of expected number of
development reported
sum of paid losses, claim adjustment expenses and reserve estimate for losses from catastrophes, in reported Incurred claims and allocated claim adjustment on reported claims
claims)
reserve changes in the calendar year. This expense conformance with generally accepted actuarial expenses, net of recoverables claims
includes losses from catastrophes of $3.11 billion, $3.34 standards. As a result, management believes that no For the years ended December 31,
billion and $2.81 billion in 2022, 2021 and 2020, other estimate is better than the recorded amount. Prior year
(unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) reserve
respectively, net of recoverables. Catastrophes are an Due to the uncertainties involved, including the factors Accident year 2018 (1) 2019 (1) 2020 (1) 2021 2022 reestimates As of December 31, 2022
inherent risk of the property and casualty insurance described above, the ultimate cost of losses may vary
2018 $ 9,788 $ 9,758 $ 9,798 $ 9,835 $ 9,928 $ 93 $ 603 2,500,972
business that have contributed to, and will continue to materially from recorded amounts, which are based on
2019 — 10,526 10,471 10,716 10,905 189 1,242 2,637,152
contribute to, material year-to-year fluctuations in the management’s best estimates. Accordingly,
2020 — — 8,748 8,744 8,984 240 1,813 1,904,004
Company’s results of operations and financial position. management believes that it is not practical to develop
2021 — — — 10,365 10,823 458 3,488 2,291,873
a meaningful range for any such changes in losses
incurred. 2022 — — — — 13,396 8,904 2,311,893
Total $ 54,036 $ 980
Prior year reserve reestimates included in claims and claims expense (1)
Reconciliation to total prior year reserve reestimates recognized by line
Twelve months ended December 31,
Prior year reserve reestimates for pre-2018 accident years 152
Non-catastrophe losses Catastrophe losses Total
Prior year reserve reestimates for ULAE 18
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021(2)(3) 2020 (4) 2022 2021 2020 Other 4
Auto $ 1,249 $ 178 $ (63) $ (64) $ (29) $ (44) $ 1,185 $ 149 $ (107)
Total prior year reserve reestimates $ 1,154
Homeowners 113 12 (17) 81 (165) (422) 194 (153) (439)
Other personal lines (34) (96) (27) 2 (11) (39) (32) (107) (66)
Cumulative paid claims and allocated claims adjustment
Commercial lines 273 116 34 (1) 3 2 272 119 36
expenses, net of recoverables
Run-off Property-Liability (5) 125 116 141 — — — 125 116 141
For the years ended December 31,
Protection Services (3) (2) (1) — — — (3) (2) (1)
(unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited)
Total prior year reserve Accident year 2018 (1) 2019 (1) 2020 (1) 2021 2022
reestimates $ 1,723 $ 324 $ 67 $ 18 $ (202) $ (503) $ 1,741 $ 122 $ (436)
2018 $ 3,663 $ 6,404 $ 7,785 $ 8,703 $ 9,325
(1) Favorable reserve reestimates are shown in parentheses. 2019 — 3,974 7,080 8,651 9,663
(2)Includes approximately $240 million of estimated recoveries related to Nationwide Aggregate Reinsurance Program cover for 2020 — — 3,135 5,858 7,171
aggregate catastrophe losses occurring between April 1, 2020 and December 31, 2020, which primarily impacted homeowners 2021 — — — 3,601 7,335
reestimates. 2022 — — — — 4,492
(3)Includes approximately $110 million favorable subrogation settlements arising from the Woolsey wildfire, which primarily impacted Total $ 37,986
homeowners reestimates.
All outstanding liabilities before 2018, net of recoverables 1,332
(4)Includes approximately $495 million of favorable reserve reestimates related to the PG&E Corporation and Southern California
Liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expenses, net of recoverables $ 17,382
Edison subrogation settlements, which primarily impacted homeowners.
(5)The Company’s 2022, 2021 and 2020 annual reserve review, using established industry and actuarial best practices, resulted in (1) Results include certain National General commercial lines insurance products.
unfavorable reestimates of $118 million, $111 million and $132 million, respectively.
Unfavorable reserve reestimates for personal auto are primarily from bodily injury and physical damage coverages. Average annual percentage payout of incurred claims by age, net of recoverables, as of December 31, 2022
Increases in injury coverages reflect recent data and updated assumptions related to severity of third-party bodily 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years
injury claims, increased claims with attorney representation, litigation costs, increased medical treatment utilization Auto insurance – liability coverage 37.6 % 28.7 % 13.3 % 8.5 % 5.3 %
and higher medical inflation. Increases in physical damage reflect the ongoing inflationary factors and supply chain
shortages impacting used vehicle and parts prices, labor rates and length of claim resolution. Delays in the receipt of
claims, including third-party carrier claims also contributed to the adverse development of claims reported in prior
250 2022 Annual Report 251 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Reconciliation of total claims and claims expense incurred and paid by coverage years. The estimate of the year-to-date current report year claim severity increased in the fourth quarter for bodily
December 31, 2022 injury and physical damage coverages to reflect continued increases in loss costs.
($ in millions) Incurred Paid Personal auto insurance claim frequency has continued to increase, but remains below 2019 levels. Late reported
Allstate Protection claim frequency attributable to prior accident years also impacted reserve reestimates.
Auto insurance - liability coverage $ 14,376 $ (11,173)
Unfavorable reserve reestimates for commercial are primarily from auto injury coverages for both shared economy
Auto insurance - physical damage coverage 9,411 (8,802)
and traditional segments with a large portion of the traditional segment increase related to states where the Company
Homeowners insurance 6,971 (5,977)
will no longer be selling new business.
Total auto and homeowners insurance 30,758 (25,952)
The following presents information about incurred and paid claims development as of December 31, 2022, net of
Other personal lines 1,520 (1,317)
recoverables, as well as the cumulative number of reported claims and the total of IBNR reserves plus expected
Commercial lines 1,256 (817)
development on reported claims included in the net incurred claims amounts. See Note 2 for the accounting policy and
Protection Services 440 (438)
methodology for determining reserves for claims and claims expense, including both reported and IBNR claims. The
Run-off Property-Liability 116 (86)
cumulative number of reported claims is identified by coverage and excludes reported claims for industry pools and
Unallocated loss adjustment expenses (“ULAE”) 3,048 (2,847) facilities where information is not available. The information about incurred and paid claims development for the 2018
Claims incurred and paid from before 2018 80 (787) to 2022 years, and the average annual percentage payout of incurred claims by age as of December 31, 2022, is
Other (1) 46 (236) presented as required supplementary information.
Total $ 37,264 $ (32,480)
Auto insurance – liability coverage
(1) Paid and incurred amounts primarily related to the effect of foreign currency translation adjustments. Additionally, paid includes
IBNR
the acquisition of SafeAuto. ($ in millions,
reserves plus Cumulative
except
Incurred claims and claims expense represents the The Company calculates and records a single best number of expected number of
development reported
sum of paid losses, claim adjustment expenses and reserve estimate for losses from catastrophes, in reported Incurred claims and allocated claim adjustment on reported claims
claims)
reserve changes in the calendar year. This expense conformance with generally accepted actuarial expenses, net of recoverables claims
includes losses from catastrophes of $3.11 billion, $3.34 standards. As a result, management believes that no For the years ended December 31,
billion and $2.81 billion in 2022, 2021 and 2020, other estimate is better than the recorded amount. Prior year
(unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) reserve
respectively, net of recoverables. Catastrophes are an Due to the uncertainties involved, including the factors Accident year 2018 (1) 2019 (1) 2020 (1) 2021 2022 reestimates As of December 31, 2022
inherent risk of the property and casualty insurance described above, the ultimate cost of losses may vary
2018 $ 9,788 $ 9,758 $ 9,798 $ 9,835 $ 9,928 $ 93 $ 603 2,500,972
business that have contributed to, and will continue to materially from recorded amounts, which are based on
2019 — 10,526 10,471 10,716 10,905 189 1,242 2,637,152
contribute to, material year-to-year fluctuations in the management’s best estimates. Accordingly,
2020 — — 8,748 8,744 8,984 240 1,813 1,904,004
Company’s results of operations and financial position. management believes that it is not practical to develop
2021 — — — 10,365 10,823 458 3,488 2,291,873
a meaningful range for any such changes in losses
incurred. 2022 — — — — 13,396 8,904 2,311,893
Total $ 54,036 $ 980
Prior year reserve reestimates included in claims and claims expense (1)
Reconciliation to total prior year reserve reestimates recognized by line
Twelve months ended December 31,
Prior year reserve reestimates for pre-2018 accident years 152
Non-catastrophe losses Catastrophe losses Total
Prior year reserve reestimates for ULAE 18
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021(2)(3) 2020 (4) 2022 2021 2020 Other 4
Auto $ 1,249 $ 178 $ (63) $ (64) $ (29) $ (44) $ 1,185 $ 149 $ (107)
Total prior year reserve reestimates $ 1,154
Homeowners 113 12 (17) 81 (165) (422) 194 (153) (439)
Other personal lines (34) (96) (27) 2 (11) (39) (32) (107) (66)
Cumulative paid claims and allocated claims adjustment
Commercial lines 273 116 34 (1) 3 2 272 119 36
expenses, net of recoverables
Run-off Property-Liability (5) 125 116 141 — — — 125 116 141
For the years ended December 31,
Protection Services (3) (2) (1) — — — (3) (2) (1)
(unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited)
Total prior year reserve Accident year 2018 (1) 2019 (1) 2020 (1) 2021 2022
reestimates $ 1,723 $ 324 $ 67 $ 18 $ (202) $ (503) $ 1,741 $ 122 $ (436)
2018 $ 3,663 $ 6,404 $ 7,785 $ 8,703 $ 9,325
(1) Favorable reserve reestimates are shown in parentheses. 2019 — 3,974 7,080 8,651 9,663
(2)Includes approximately $240 million of estimated recoveries related to Nationwide Aggregate Reinsurance Program cover for 2020 — — 3,135 5,858 7,171
aggregate catastrophe losses occurring between April 1, 2020 and December 31, 2020, which primarily impacted homeowners 2021 — — — 3,601 7,335
reestimates. 2022 — — — — 4,492
(3)Includes approximately $110 million favorable subrogation settlements arising from the Woolsey wildfire, which primarily impacted Total $ 37,986
homeowners reestimates.
All outstanding liabilities before 2018, net of recoverables 1,332
(4)Includes approximately $495 million of favorable reserve reestimates related to the PG&E Corporation and Southern California
Liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expenses, net of recoverables $ 17,382
Edison subrogation settlements, which primarily impacted homeowners.
(5)The Company’s 2022, 2021 and 2020 annual reserve review, using established industry and actuarial best practices, resulted in (1) Results include certain National General commercial lines insurance products.
unfavorable reestimates of $118 million, $111 million and $132 million, respectively.
Unfavorable reserve reestimates for personal auto are primarily from bodily injury and physical damage coverages. Average annual percentage payout of incurred claims by age, net of recoverables, as of December 31, 2022
Increases in injury coverages reflect recent data and updated assumptions related to severity of third-party bodily 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years
injury claims, increased claims with attorney representation, litigation costs, increased medical treatment utilization Auto insurance – liability coverage 37.6 % 28.7 % 13.3 % 8.5 % 5.3 %
and higher medical inflation. Increases in physical damage reflect the ongoing inflationary factors and supply chain
shortages impacting used vehicle and parts prices, labor rates and length of claim resolution. Delays in the receipt of
claims, including third-party carrier claims also contributed to the adverse development of claims reported in prior
250 2022 Annual Report 251 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Auto insurance – physical damage coverage Homeowners insurance
IBNR IBNR
reserves plus reserves plus
($ in millions, expected Cumulative ($ in millions, expected Cumulative
except number development number of except number development number of
of reported Incurred claims and allocated claim adjustment expenses, on reported reported of reported Incurred claims and allocated claim adjustment expenses, on reported reported
claims) net of recoverables claims claims claims) net of recoverables claims claims
For the years ended December 31, For the years ended December 31,
Prior year Prior year
(unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) reserve (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) reserve
Accident year 2018 (1) 2019 (1) 2020 (1) 2021 2022 reestimates As of December 31, 2022 Accident year 2018 (1) 2019 (1) 2020 (1) 2021 2022 reestimates As of December 31, 2022
2018 $ 5,775 $ 5,692 $ 5,647 $ 5,640 $ 5,637 $ (3) $ — 4,686,877 2018 $ 5,145 $ 5,251 $ 4,947 $ 4,818 $ 4,852 $ 34 $ 42 898,857
2019 — 6,255 6,174 6,136 6,134 (2) (1) 4,861,875 2019 — 4,853 4,912 4,920 4,931 11 85 869,860
2020 — — 5,495 5,407 5,381 (26) (7) 4,013,428 2020 — — 5,781 5,827 5,921 94 137 989,034
2021 — — — 7,285 7,342 57 (23) 4,587,385 2021 — — — 6,404 6,532 128 385 992,897
2022 — — — — 9,385 1,060 4,711,189 2022 — — — — 6,704 2,724 705,357
Total $ 33,879 $ 26 Total $ 28,940 $ 267
Reconciliation to total prior year reserve reestimates recognized by line Reconciliation to total prior year reserve reestimates recognized by line
Prior year reserve reestimates for pre-2018 accident years — Prior year reserve reestimates for pre-2018 accident years (72)
Prior year reserve reestimates for ULAE 3 Prior year reserve reestimates for ULAE 2
Other 2 Other (3)
Total prior year reserve reestimates $ 31 Total prior year reserve reestimates $ 194
Cumulative paid claims and allocated claims adjustment Cumulative paid claims and allocated claims adjustment
expenses, net of recoverables expenses, net of recoverables
For the years ended December 31, For the years ended December 31,
(unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited)
Accident year 2018 (1) 2019 (1) 2020 (1) 2021 2022 Accident year 2018 (1) 2019 (1) 2020 (1) 2021 2022
2018 $ 5,464 $ 5,681 $ 5,638 $ 5,635 $ 5,637 2018 $ 3,768 $ 4,873 $ 4,749 $ 4,736 $ 4,810
2019 — 5,947 6,144 6,138 6,135 2019 — 3,527 4,576 4,768 4,846
2020 — — 5,129 5,415 5,388 2020 — — 4,257 5,548 5,784
2021 — — — 6,860 7,365 2021 — — — 4,538 6,147
2022 — — — — 8,325 2022 — — — — 3,980
Total $ 32,850 Total $ 25,567
All outstanding liabilities before 2018, net of recoverables 11 All outstanding liabilities before 2018, net of recoverables 86
Liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expenses, net of recoverables $ 1,040 Liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expenses, net of recoverables $ 3,459
(1) Results include certain National General commercial lines insurance products. (1) Results include National General packaged policies, which include auto, and commercial lines insurance products.
Average annual percentage payout of incurred claims by age, net of recoverables, as of December 31, 2022 Average annual percentage payout of incurred claims by age, net of recoverables, as of December 31, 2022
1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years
Auto insurance – physical damage coverage 95.2 % 4.4 % (0.3) % (1.5) % 1.6 % Homeowners insurance 72.0 % 21.3 % 2.9 % 0.8 % 0.8 %
252 2022 Annual Report 253 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Auto insurance – physical damage coverage Homeowners insurance
IBNR IBNR
reserves plus reserves plus
($ in millions, expected Cumulative ($ in millions, expected Cumulative
except number development number of except number development number of
of reported Incurred claims and allocated claim adjustment expenses, on reported reported of reported Incurred claims and allocated claim adjustment expenses, on reported reported
claims) net of recoverables claims claims claims) net of recoverables claims claims
For the years ended December 31, For the years ended December 31,
Prior year Prior year
(unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) reserve (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) reserve
Accident year 2018 (1) 2019 (1) 2020 (1) 2021 2022 reestimates As of December 31, 2022 Accident year 2018 (1) 2019 (1) 2020 (1) 2021 2022 reestimates As of December 31, 2022
2018 $ 5,775 $ 5,692 $ 5,647 $ 5,640 $ 5,637 $ (3) $ — 4,686,877 2018 $ 5,145 $ 5,251 $ 4,947 $ 4,818 $ 4,852 $ 34 $ 42 898,857
2019 — 6,255 6,174 6,136 6,134 (2) (1) 4,861,875 2019 — 4,853 4,912 4,920 4,931 11 85 869,860
2020 — — 5,495 5,407 5,381 (26) (7) 4,013,428 2020 — — 5,781 5,827 5,921 94 137 989,034
2021 — — — 7,285 7,342 57 (23) 4,587,385 2021 — — — 6,404 6,532 128 385 992,897
2022 — — — — 9,385 1,060 4,711,189 2022 — — — — 6,704 2,724 705,357
Total $ 33,879 $ 26 Total $ 28,940 $ 267
Reconciliation to total prior year reserve reestimates recognized by line Reconciliation to total prior year reserve reestimates recognized by line
Prior year reserve reestimates for pre-2018 accident years — Prior year reserve reestimates for pre-2018 accident years (72)
Prior year reserve reestimates for ULAE 3 Prior year reserve reestimates for ULAE 2
Other 2 Other (3)
Total prior year reserve reestimates $ 31 Total prior year reserve reestimates $ 194
Cumulative paid claims and allocated claims adjustment Cumulative paid claims and allocated claims adjustment
expenses, net of recoverables expenses, net of recoverables
For the years ended December 31, For the years ended December 31,
(unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited)
Accident year 2018 (1) 2019 (1) 2020 (1) 2021 2022 Accident year 2018 (1) 2019 (1) 2020 (1) 2021 2022
2018 $ 5,464 $ 5,681 $ 5,638 $ 5,635 $ 5,637 2018 $ 3,768 $ 4,873 $ 4,749 $ 4,736 $ 4,810
2019 — 5,947 6,144 6,138 6,135 2019 — 3,527 4,576 4,768 4,846
2020 — — 5,129 5,415 5,388 2020 — — 4,257 5,548 5,784
2021 — — — 6,860 7,365 2021 — — — 4,538 6,147
2022 — — — — 8,325 2022 — — — — 3,980
Total $ 32,850 Total $ 25,567
All outstanding liabilities before 2018, net of recoverables 11 All outstanding liabilities before 2018, net of recoverables 86
Liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expenses, net of recoverables $ 1,040 Liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expenses, net of recoverables $ 3,459
(1) Results include certain National General commercial lines insurance products. (1) Results include National General packaged policies, which include auto, and commercial lines insurance products.
Average annual percentage payout of incurred claims by age, net of recoverables, as of December 31, 2022 Average annual percentage payout of incurred claims by age, net of recoverables, as of December 31, 2022
1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years
Auto insurance – physical damage coverage 95.2 % 4.4 % (0.3) % (1.5) % 1.6 % Homeowners insurance 72.0 % 21.3 % 2.9 % 0.8 % 0.8 %
252 2022 Annual Report 253 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Reconciliation of the net incurred and paid claims development tables above to the reserve for property and Accident and health short-duration contracts
casualty insurance claims and claims expense
The following presents information about incurred and paid claims development as of December 31, 2022, net of
($ in millions) As of December 31, 2022
recoverables, as well as the cumulative number of reported claims and the total of IBNR reserves plus expected
Net outstanding liabilities
development on reported claims included in the net incurred claims amounts. See Note 2 for the accounting policy and
Allstate Protection methodology for determining reserves for future policy benefits, including both reported and IBNR claims. The
Auto insurance - liability coverage $ 17,382 Company’s accident and health claims are counted by claim number assigned to each claimant per illness, injury or
Auto insurance - physical damage coverage 1,040 death, regardless of number of services rendered for each incident. Claims closed without payment are not included in
Homeowners insurance 3,459 the cumulative number of reported accident and health claims. The information about incurred and paid claims
Other personal lines 1,558 development for the 2018 to 2022 years, as of December 31, 2022, is presented as required supplementary information.
Commercial lines 1,857 Group and individual accident and health
Protection Services 36
Incurred claims and allocated claim adjustment IBNR reserves
Run-off Property-Liability (1) 1,370 ($ in millions, except expenses, net of recoverables plus expected Cumulative
number of reported number of
ULAE 1,649 claims) development on reported claims
reported claims
Other (2) 14
For the years ended December 31,
Net reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense 28,365
(unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited)
Recoverables Accident year 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 As of December 31, 2022
Allstate Protection 2018 $ 235 $ 205 $ 203 $ 203 $ 203 $ — 292,491
Auto insurance - liability coverage 7,214 2019 — 257 239 242 242 — 311,662
Auto insurance - physical damage coverage 44 2020 — — 297 293 294 4 414,634
Homeowners insurance 666 2021 — — — 424 420 12 671,483
Other personal lines 320 2022 — — — — 437 162 427,124
Commercial lines 292 Total $ 1,596
Protection Services 11
Cumulative paid claims and allocated claims adjustment
Run-off Property-Liability 503
expenses, net of recoverables
ULAE 126
For the years ended December 31,
Total recoverables 9,176
(unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited)
Gross reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense $ 37,541
Accident year 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
(1) Run-off Property-Liability includes business in run-off with most of the claims related to accident years more than 30 years ago. 2018 $ 126 $ 201 $ 203 $ 203 $ 203
IBNR reserves represent $765 million of the total reserves as of December 31, 2022. 2019 — 158 234 242 242
(2)Primarily related to the unamortized fair value adjustment related to the acquisition of National General. 2020 — — 184 284 290
2021 — — — 272 408
Note 10 Reserve for Future Policy Benefits and Contractholder Funds
2022 — — — — 275
Total $ 1,418
Reserve for future policy benefits
As of December 31, All outstanding liabilities before 2018, net of recoverables —
($ in millions) 2022 2021 Liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expenses, net of recoverables $ 178
Traditional life insurance and other $ 318 $ 313
Accident and health insurance 955 960 Reconciliation of the net incurred and paid claims development tables above to the reserve for future policy
benefits
Reserve for future policy benefits $ 1,273 $ 1,273
($ in millions) As of December 31, 2022
Net outstanding liabilities
Key assumptions generally used in calculating the reserve for future policy benefits
Group and individual accident and health short-duration contracts $ 178
Product Mortality Interest rate Estimation method
Other accident and health short-duration contracts 31
Traditional life insurance Actual company experience plus Interest rate assumptions Net level premium reserve
Long duration accident and health insurance 592
loading range from 1.8% to 7.0% method using the
Company’s withdrawal Long duration traditional life insurance and other 324
experience rates; includes ULAE 9
reserves for unpaid claims
Net reserve for future policy benefits 1,134
Accident and health Actual company experience plus Interest rate assumptions Unearned premium;
Recoverables
insurance loading range from 2.0% to 7.0% additional contract
reserves for mortality risk Group and individual accident and health short-duration contracts 35
and unpaid claims Other accident and health short-duration contracts —
Insurance lines other than short-duration 104
ULAE —
Gross reserve for future policy benefits $ 1,273
Average annual percentage payout of incurred claims by age, net of recoverables, as of December 31, 2022
1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years
Group and individual accident and health 63.0 % 34.3 % 2.1 % 0.6 % — %
254 2022 Annual Report 255 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Reconciliation of the net incurred and paid claims development tables above to the reserve for property and Accident and health short-duration contracts
casualty insurance claims and claims expense
The following presents information about incurred and paid claims development as of December 31, 2022, net of
($ in millions) As of December 31, 2022
recoverables, as well as the cumulative number of reported claims and the total of IBNR reserves plus expected
Net outstanding liabilities
development on reported claims included in the net incurred claims amounts. See Note 2 for the accounting policy and
Allstate Protection methodology for determining reserves for future policy benefits, including both reported and IBNR claims. The
Auto insurance - liability coverage $ 17,382 Company’s accident and health claims are counted by claim number assigned to each claimant per illness, injury or
Auto insurance - physical damage coverage 1,040 death, regardless of number of services rendered for each incident. Claims closed without payment are not included in
Homeowners insurance 3,459 the cumulative number of reported accident and health claims. The information about incurred and paid claims
Other personal lines 1,558 development for the 2018 to 2022 years, as of December 31, 2022, is presented as required supplementary information.
Commercial lines 1,857 Group and individual accident and health
Protection Services 36
Incurred claims and allocated claim adjustment IBNR reserves
Run-off Property-Liability (1) 1,370 ($ in millions, except expenses, net of recoverables plus expected Cumulative
number of reported number of
ULAE 1,649 claims) development on reported claims
reported claims
Other (2) 14
For the years ended December 31,
Net reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense 28,365
(unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited)
Recoverables Accident year 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 As of December 31, 2022
Allstate Protection 2018 $ 235 $ 205 $ 203 $ 203 $ 203 $ — 292,491
Auto insurance - liability coverage 7,214 2019 — 257 239 242 242 — 311,662
Auto insurance - physical damage coverage 44 2020 — — 297 293 294 4 414,634
Homeowners insurance 666 2021 — — — 424 420 12 671,483
Other personal lines 320 2022 — — — — 437 162 427,124
Commercial lines 292 Total $ 1,596
Protection Services 11
Cumulative paid claims and allocated claims adjustment
Run-off Property-Liability 503
expenses, net of recoverables
ULAE 126
For the years ended December 31,
Total recoverables 9,176
(unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited)
Gross reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense $ 37,541
Accident year 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
(1) Run-off Property-Liability includes business in run-off with most of the claims related to accident years more than 30 years ago. 2018 $ 126 $ 201 $ 203 $ 203 $ 203
IBNR reserves represent $765 million of the total reserves as of December 31, 2022. 2019 — 158 234 242 242
(2)Primarily related to the unamortized fair value adjustment related to the acquisition of National General. 2020 — — 184 284 290
2021 — — — 272 408
Note 10 Reserve for Future Policy Benefits and Contractholder Funds
2022 — — — — 275
Total $ 1,418
Reserve for future policy benefits
As of December 31, All outstanding liabilities before 2018, net of recoverables —
($ in millions) 2022 2021 Liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expenses, net of recoverables $ 178
Traditional life insurance and other $ 318 $ 313
Accident and health insurance 955 960 Reconciliation of the net incurred and paid claims development tables above to the reserve for future policy
benefits
Reserve for future policy benefits $ 1,273 $ 1,273
($ in millions) As of December 31, 2022
Net outstanding liabilities
Key assumptions generally used in calculating the reserve for future policy benefits
Group and individual accident and health short-duration contracts $ 178
Product Mortality Interest rate Estimation method
Other accident and health short-duration contracts 31
Traditional life insurance Actual company experience plus Interest rate assumptions Net level premium reserve
Long duration accident and health insurance 592
loading range from 1.8% to 7.0% method using the
Company’s withdrawal Long duration traditional life insurance and other 324
experience rates; includes ULAE 9
reserves for unpaid claims
Net reserve for future policy benefits 1,134
Accident and health Actual company experience plus Interest rate assumptions Unearned premium;
Recoverables
insurance loading range from 2.0% to 7.0% additional contract
reserves for mortality risk Group and individual accident and health short-duration contracts 35
and unpaid claims Other accident and health short-duration contracts —
Insurance lines other than short-duration 104
ULAE —
Gross reserve for future policy benefits $ 1,273
Average annual percentage payout of incurred claims by age, net of recoverables, as of December 31, 2022
1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years
Group and individual accident and health 63.0 % 34.3 % 2.1 % 0.6 % — %
254 2022 Annual Report 255 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Contractholder funds for interest-sensitive life insurance were $847 million and $853 million as of December 31, 2022 Rollforward of credit loss allowance for reinsurance recoverables
and 2021, respectively. For the years ended December 31,
Contractholder funds activity ($ in millions) 2022 2021
Property and casualty (1) (2)
For the years ended December 31,
Beginning balance $ (66) $ (59)
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Increase in the provision for credit losses (5) (8)
Balance, beginning of year $ 908 $ 857 $ 915
Write-offs 9 1
Deposits 133 118 121
Ending balance $ (62) $ (66)
Interest credited 32 34 33
Benefits (21) (41) (34)
Accident and health insurance
Surrenders and partial withdrawals (28) (23) (61)
Beginning balance $ (8) $ (1)
Contract charges (121) (107) (123)
Decrease/(Increase) in the provision for credit losses 5 (7)
Other adjustments (6) 70 6
Write-offs — —
Balance, end of year $ 897 $ 908 $ 857
Ending Balance $ (3) $ (8)
Note 11 Reinsurance and Indemnification (1) Primarily related to Run-off Property-Liability reinsurance ceded.
(2)Indemnification recoverables are considered collectible based on the industry pool and facility enabling legislation.
Effects of reinsurance and indemnification on property and casualty premiums written and earned and accident
Property and casualty
and health insurance premiums and contract charges
For the years ended December 31, Property and casualty programs are grouped by payment of indemnified amounts for covered claims
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 the following characteristics: presented by participating companies. The Company
Property and casualty insurance premiums written has not had any credit losses related to these
1. Indemnification programs - industry pools, facilities
indemnification programs.
Direct $ 50,065 $ 45,523 $ 38,695 or associations that are governed by state
Assumed 245 213 105 insurance statutes or regulations or the federal State-based industry pools or facilities
Ceded (1,824) (1,736) (1,142) government.
Michigan Catastrophic Claims Association The
Property and casualty insurance premiums written, net of recoverables $ 48,486 $ 44,000 $ 37,658
2. Catastrophe reinsurance programs - reinsurance MCCA is a statutory indemnification mechanism for
protection for catastrophe exposure nationwide member insurers’ qualifying personal injury protection
Property and casualty insurance premiums earned and by specific states, as applicable. claims paid for the unlimited lifetime medical benefits
Direct $ 47,552 $ 43,944 $ 38,115 above the applicable retention level for qualifying
3. Other reinsurance programs - reinsurance
Assumed 221 178 99 injuries from automobile, motorcycle and commercial
protection for asbestos, environmental and other
Ceded (1,869) (1,904) (1,141) vehicle accidents. Indemnification recoverables on paid
liability exposures as well as commercial lines,
Property and casualty insurance premiums earned, net of recoverables $ 45,904 $ 42,218 $ 37,073 and unpaid claims, including IBNR, as of December 31,
including shared economy.
2022 and 2021 include $6.72 billion and $6.70 billion,
Property and casualty reinsurance is in place for respectively, from the MCCA for its indemnification
Accident and health insurance premiums and contract charges
the Allstate Protection, Run-off lines and Protection obligation.
Direct $ 1,840 $ 1,878 $ 1,093
Services segments. The Company purchases
Assumed 31 21 14 The MCCA is funded by annually assessing
reinsurance after evaluating the financial condition of
Ceded (38) (78) (13) participating member companies actively writing
the reinsurer as well as the terms and price of
motor vehicle coverage in Michigan on a per vehicle
Accident and health insurance premiums and contract charges, net of coverage.
recoverables $ 1,833 $ 1,821 $ 1,094 basis that is currently $86 per vehicle insured for
Indemnification programs unlimited personal injury protection (“PIP”) coverage.
Reinsurance and indemnification recoverables The MCCA’s calculation of the annual assessment is
The Company participates in state-based industry
based upon the total of members’ actuarially
Reinsurance and indemnification recoverables, net pools or facilities mandating participation by insurers
determined present value of expected payments on
As of December 31, offering certain coverage in their state, including the
lifetime claims by all persons expected to be
($ in millions) 2022 2021 Michigan Catastrophic Claims Association (“MCCA”),
catastrophically injured in that year and ultimately
Property and casualty the New Jersey Property-Liability Insurance Guaranty
qualify for MCCA reimbursement, its operating
Paid and due from reinsurers and indemnitors $ 291 $ 391 Association (“PLIGA”), the North Carolina Reinsurance expenses, and adjustments for the amount of excesses
Unpaid losses estimated (including IBNR) 9,176 9,479 Facility (“NCRF”) and the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe or deficiencies in prior assessments. The MCCA has
Fund (“FHCF”). When the Company pays qualifying
Total property and casualty $ 9,467 $ 9,870 also included in its calculation, the impacts of the auto
claims under the coverage indemnified by a state’s
Accident and health insurance 139 154 insurance reforms which have begun to phase in since
pool or facility, the Company is reimbursed for the
Total $ 9,606 $ 10,024 their passage in June 2019, including the PIP medical
qualifying claim losses and expenses. Each state pool
fee schedule that became effective July 2, 2021. The
or facility may assess participating companies to
assessment is incurred by the Company as policies are
collect sufficient amounts to meet its total
written and recovered as a component of premiums
indemnification requirements. The enabling legislation
from the Company’s customers.
for each state’s pool or facility compels the pool or
facility only to indemnify participating companies for The MCCA indemnifies qualifying claims of all
qualifying claim losses and expenses; the state pool or current and former member companies (whether or not
facility does not underwrite the coverage or take on actively writing motor vehicle coverage in Michigan) for
the ultimate risk of the indemnified business. As a pass qualifying claims and claims expenses incurred while
through, these pools or facilities manage the receipt of the member companies were actively writing the
assessments paid by participating companies and mandatory PIP coverage in Michigan. Member
256 2022 Annual Report 257 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Contractholder funds for interest-sensitive life insurance were $847 million and $853 million as of December 31, 2022 Rollforward of credit loss allowance for reinsurance recoverables
and 2021, respectively. For the years ended December 31,
Contractholder funds activity ($ in millions) 2022 2021
Property and casualty (1) (2)
For the years ended December 31,
Beginning balance $ (66) $ (59)
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
Increase in the provision for credit losses (5) (8)
Balance, beginning of year $ 908 $ 857 $ 915
Write-offs 9 1
Deposits 133 118 121
Ending balance $ (62) $ (66)
Interest credited 32 34 33
Benefits (21) (41) (34)
Accident and health insurance
Surrenders and partial withdrawals (28) (23) (61)
Beginning balance $ (8) $ (1)
Contract charges (121) (107) (123)
Decrease/(Increase) in the provision for credit losses 5 (7)
Other adjustments (6) 70 6
Write-offs — —
Balance, end of year $ 897 $ 908 $ 857
Ending Balance $ (3) $ (8)
Note 11 Reinsurance and Indemnification (1) Primarily related to Run-off Property-Liability reinsurance ceded.
(2)Indemnification recoverables are considered collectible based on the industry pool and facility enabling legislation.
Effects of reinsurance and indemnification on property and casualty premiums written and earned and accident
Property and casualty
and health insurance premiums and contract charges
For the years ended December 31, Property and casualty programs are grouped by payment of indemnified amounts for covered claims
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 the following characteristics: presented by participating companies. The Company
Property and casualty insurance premiums written has not had any credit losses related to these
1. Indemnification programs - industry pools, facilities
indemnification programs.
Direct $ 50,065 $ 45,523 $ 38,695 or associations that are governed by state
Assumed 245 213 105 insurance statutes or regulations or the federal State-based industry pools or facilities
Ceded (1,824) (1,736) (1,142) government.
Michigan Catastrophic Claims Association The
Property and casualty insurance premiums written, net of recoverables $ 48,486 $ 44,000 $ 37,658
2. Catastrophe reinsurance programs - reinsurance MCCA is a statutory indemnification mechanism for
protection for catastrophe exposure nationwide member insurers’ qualifying personal injury protection
Property and casualty insurance premiums earned and by specific states, as applicable. claims paid for the unlimited lifetime medical benefits
Direct $ 47,552 $ 43,944 $ 38,115 above the applicable retention level for qualifying
3. Other reinsurance programs - reinsurance
Assumed 221 178 99 injuries from automobile, motorcycle and commercial
protection for asbestos, environmental and other
Ceded (1,869) (1,904) (1,141) vehicle accidents. Indemnification recoverables on paid
liability exposures as well as commercial lines,
Property and casualty insurance premiums earned, net of recoverables $ 45,904 $ 42,218 $ 37,073 and unpaid claims, including IBNR, as of December 31,
including shared economy.
2022 and 2021 include $6.72 billion and $6.70 billion,
Property and casualty reinsurance is in place for respectively, from the MCCA for its indemnification
Accident and health insurance premiums and contract charges
the Allstate Protection, Run-off lines and Protection obligation.
Direct $ 1,840 $ 1,878 $ 1,093
Services segments. The Company purchases
Assumed 31 21 14 The MCCA is funded by annually assessing
reinsurance after evaluating the financial condition of
Ceded (38) (78) (13) participating member companies actively writing
the reinsurer as well as the terms and price of
motor vehicle coverage in Michigan on a per vehicle
Accident and health insurance premiums and contract charges, net of coverage.
recoverables $ 1,833 $ 1,821 $ 1,094 basis that is currently $86 per vehicle insured for
Indemnification programs unlimited personal injury protection (“PIP”) coverage.
Reinsurance and indemnification recoverables The MCCA’s calculation of the annual assessment is
The Company participates in state-based industry
based upon the total of members’ actuarially
Reinsurance and indemnification recoverables, net pools or facilities mandating participation by insurers
determined present value of expected payments on
As of December 31, offering certain coverage in their state, including the
lifetime claims by all persons expected to be
($ in millions) 2022 2021 Michigan Catastrophic Claims Association (“MCCA”),
catastrophically injured in that year and ultimately
Property and casualty the New Jersey Property-Liability Insurance Guaranty
qualify for MCCA reimbursement, its operating
Paid and due from reinsurers and indemnitors $ 291 $ 391 Association (“PLIGA”), the North Carolina Reinsurance expenses, and adjustments for the amount of excesses
Unpaid losses estimated (including IBNR) 9,176 9,479 Facility (“NCRF”) and the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe or deficiencies in prior assessments. The MCCA has
Fund (“FHCF”). When the Company pays qualifying
Total property and casualty $ 9,467 $ 9,870 also included in its calculation, the impacts of the auto
claims under the coverage indemnified by a state’s
Accident and health insurance 139 154 insurance reforms which have begun to phase in since
pool or facility, the Company is reimbursed for the
Total $ 9,606 $ 10,024 their passage in June 2019, including the PIP medical
qualifying claim losses and expenses. Each state pool
fee schedule that became effective July 2, 2021. The
or facility may assess participating companies to
assessment is incurred by the Company as policies are
collect sufficient amounts to meet its total
written and recovered as a component of premiums
indemnification requirements. The enabling legislation
from the Company’s customers.
for each state’s pool or facility compels the pool or
facility only to indemnify participating companies for The MCCA indemnifies qualifying claims of all
qualifying claim losses and expenses; the state pool or current and former member companies (whether or not
facility does not underwrite the coverage or take on actively writing motor vehicle coverage in Michigan) for
the ultimate risk of the indemnified business. As a pass qualifying claims and claims expenses incurred while
through, these pools or facilities manage the receipt of the member companies were actively writing the
assessments paid by participating companies and mandatory PIP coverage in Michigan. Member
256 2022 Annual Report 257 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
companies actively writing automobile coverage in disbursed to the policyholders. All refunds have been operating losses for certain insureds through a fees for its services. The Company is fully indemnified
Michigan include the MCCA annual assessments in sent to policyholders as of December 31, 2022. surcharge to policyholders. As of September 30, 2022, for claims and claim expenses and does not retain any
determining the level of premiums to charge insureds the NCRF reported a deficit of $148 million in members’ ultimate risk for the indemnified business. The federal
New Jersey Property-Liability Insurance Guaranty
in the state. equity. The NCRF implemented a loss recoupment government is obligated to pay all claims and certain
Association PLIGA serves as the statutory
surcharge on all private passenger and commercial allocated loss adjustment expenses in accordance with
As required for member companies by the MCCA, administrator of the Unsatisfied Claim and Judgment
fleet policies effective October 1, 2022, through March the arrangement.
the Company reports covered paid and unpaid claims Fund (“UCJF”), Workers’ Compensation Security Fund
31, 2023. Member companies are assessed the
to the MCCA when estimates of loss for a reported and the New Jersey Surplus Lines Insurance Guaranty Congressional authorization for the NFIP is
recoupment surcharge. The loss recoupment
claim are expected to exceed the retention level, the Fund. periodically evaluated and may be subjected to
surcharge will be adjusted on April 1, 2023 and
claims involve certain types of severe injuries, or there freezes, including when the federal government
In addition to its insolvency protection discontinued once losses are recovered. The NCRF
are litigation demands received suggesting the claim experiences a shutdown. FEMA has a NFIP reinsurance
responsibilities, PLIGA reimburses insurers for results are shared by the member companies in
value exceeds certain thresholds. The retention level is program to manage the future exposure of the NFIP
unlimited excess medical benefits (“EMBs”) paid in proportion to their respective North Carolina
adjusted upward every other MCCA fiscal year by the through the transfer of risk to private reinsurance
connection with PIP claims in excess of $75,000 for automobile liability writings. For the fiscal year ending
lesser of 6% or the increase in the Consumer Price companies and capital market investors. Congress is
policies issued or renewed prior to January 1, 1991, and September 30, 2022, net loss was $81 million, including
Index. The retention level will be $600 thousand per evaluating the funding of the program as well as
limited EMB claims in excess of $75,000 and capped at $1.1 billion of earned premiums, $302 million of certain
claim for the fiscal two-years ending June 30, 2023 considering reforms to the program that would be
$250,000 for policies issued or renewed on or after private passenger auto risk recoupment and $37
compared to $580 thousand per claim for the fiscal incorporated in legislation to reauthorize the NFIP. As
January 1, 1991, to December 31, 2003. million of member loss recoupments. As of December
two-years ending June 30, 2021. of June 30, 2022, the NFIP owes $20.5 billion to the
31, 2022, the NCRF recoverables on paid claims is $52
A significant portion of the incurred claim reserves U.S. Treasury.
The MCCA is obligated to fund the ultimate liability million and recoverables on unpaid claims is $240
and the recoverables can be attributed to a small
of member companies’ qualifying claims and claim million. Paid recoverable balances, if covered, are The amounts recoverable as of December 31, 2022
number of catastrophic claims. Assessments paid to
expenses. The MCCA does not underwrite the typically settled within sixty days of monthly filing. and 2021 were $145 million and $34 million,
PLIGA for the EMB program totaled $7 million in 2022.
insurance coverage or hold any underwriting risk. respectively. Premiums earned under the NFIP include
The amounts of paid and unpaid recoverables as of Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund Allstate
$319 million, $350 million and $261 million in 2022, 2021
The MCCA indemnifies members as qualifying December 31, 2022 and 2021 were $330 million and subsidiaries Castle Key Insurance Company (“CKIC”)
and 2020, respectively. Qualifying losses incurred
claims are paid and billed by members to the MCCA. $371 million, respectively. and Castle Key Indemnity Company (“CKI”, and
include $435 million, $267 million and $87 million in
Unlimited lifetime covered losses result in significant together with CKIC, “Castle Key”) participate in the
PLIGA annually assesses all admitted property and 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
levels of ultimate incurred claim reserves being mandatory coverage provided by the FHCF and
casualty insurers writing covered lines in New Jersey
recorded by member companies along with offsetting therefore have access to reimbursement for certain Catastrophe reinsurance
for PLIGA indemnification and expenses. PLIGA
indemnification recoverables. Disputes with claimants qualifying Florida hurricane losses from the FHCF.
assessments may be recouped as a surcharge on The Company’s reinsurance program is designed
over coverage on certain reported claims can result in Castle Key has exposure to assessments and pays
premiums collected. PLIGA does not ultimately retain to provide reinsurance protection for catastrophes
additional losses, which may be recoverable from the annual premiums to the FHCF for this reimbursement
underwriting risk as it assesses member companies for resulting from multiple perils including hurricanes,
MCCA, excluding litigation expenses. There is currently protection. The FHCF has the authority to issue bonds
their expected qualifying losses to provide funding for windstorms, hail, tornadoes, winter storms, wildfires,
no method by which insurers are able to obtain the to pay its obligations to participating insurers in excess
payment of its indemnification obligation to member earthquakes and fires following earthquakes.
benefit of managed care programs to reduce claims of its capital balances. Payment of these bonds is
companies for their actual losses. As a pass through,
costs through the MCCA. funded by emergency assessments on all property and • The Company purchases reinsurance from
PLIGA facilitates these transactions of receipt of
casualty premiums in the state, except workers’ traditional reinsurance companies as well as the
The MCCA annual assessments fund current assessments paid by member companies and payment
compensation, medical malpractice, accident and insurance-linked securities (“ILS”) market.
operations and member company reimbursements. to member companies for covered claims presented by
health insurance and policies written under the
The MCCA prepares statutory-basis financial them for indemnification. As of December 31, 2021, the National Flood Insurance Program (“NFIP”). The FHCF • The majority of the Company’s program comprises
statements in conformity with accounting practices date of its most recent annual financial report, PLIGA emergency assessments are limited to 6% of premiums multi-year contracts, primarily placed in the
prescribed or permitted by the State of Michigan had a fund balance of $268 million. per year beginning the first year in which traditional reinsurance market, such that generally
Department of Insurance and Financial Services (“MI As statutory administrator of the UCJF, PLIGA reimbursements require bonding, and up to a total of one-third of the program is renewed every year.
DOI”). The MI DOI has granted the MCCA a statutory
provides compensation to qualified claimants for 10% of premiums per year for assessments in the • Coverage is generally purchased on a broad
permitted practice that expires in June 30, 2025 to
personal injury protection, bodily injury, or death second and subsequent years, if required to fund geographic, product line and multiple peril loss
discount its liabilities for loss and loss adjustment
caused by private passenger automobiles operated by additional bonding. The FHCF has not issued an basis.
expense. As of June 30, 2022, the date of its most
uninsured or “hit and run” drivers. The UCJF also emergency assessment since 2015.
recent annual financial report, the MCCA had cash and • Florida personal lines property is covered by a
provides private passenger pedestrian personal injury
invested assets of $21.82 billion and an accumulated Annual premiums earned and paid under the FHCF separate agreement, as the risk of loss is different
protection benefits when no other coverage is
deficit of $3.68 billion. The permitted practice reduced agreement were $24 million, $15 million and $9 million and the Company’s subsidiaries operating in this
available.
the accumulated deficit by $44.89 billion. As a result of in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Qualifying losses state are separately capitalized.
this deficit, there will be an additional assessment of PLIGA annually collects a UCJF assessment from were $74 million, $13 million and $15 million in 2022,
$48 per passenger and commercial vehicle and all admitted property and casualty insurers writing 2021 and 2020, respectively. The Company has access • When applicable, reinsurance reinstatement
motorcycle insured beginning July 1, 2023 with varying motor vehicle liability insurance in New Jersey for UCJF to reimbursement provided by the FHCF for 90% of premiums are recognized in the same period as
assessments for commercial fleet and historical indemnification and expenses. UCJF assessments can qualifying personal property losses that exceed its the loss event that gave rise to the reinstatement
vehicles. be expensed as losses recoverable in rates as current retention of $153 million for the two largest premium and are recorded in claims and claims
appropriate. As of December 31, 2021, the date of its hurricanes and $51 million for other hurricanes, up to a expense in the consolidated statements of
As a result of the auto insurance reforms passed in most recent annual financial report, the UCJF fund had maximum total of $350 million, effective from June 1, operations.
June 2019, the MCCA announced on November 3, 2021
that the surplus reported for the fiscal year ended June a balance of $62 million. 2022 to May 31, 2023. The amounts recoverable from The Company’s current catastrophe reinsurance
the FHCF totaled $96 million and $25 million as of
30, 2021 had increased beyond a level necessary to North Carolina Reinsurance Facility The NCRF December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. program supports the Company’s risk tolerance
safely cover its expected losses and expenses and will provides automobile liability insurance to drivers that framework which utilizes a modeled 1-in-100 annual
return a portion of its surplus to its member insurance private market insurers are not otherwise willing to Federal Government - National Flood Insurance aggregate limit for catastrophe losses from hurricanes,
companies as a pass-through to issue a refund of $400 insure. All insurers licensed to write automobile Program NFIP is a program administered by the earthquakes and wildfires of $2.5 billion, net of
per vehicle and $80 per historical vehicle to the insurance in North Carolina are members of the NCRF. Federal Emergency Management Agency (“FEMA”) reinsurance.
policyholders. At the time the returned surplus was Premiums, losses and expenses are assigned to the whereby the Company sells and services NFIP flood
received, a liability was recorded until the refunds were NCRF. North Carolina law allows the NCRF to recoup insurance policies as an agent of FEMA and receives
258 2022 Annual Report 259 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
companies actively writing automobile coverage in disbursed to the policyholders. All refunds have been operating losses for certain insureds through a fees for its services. The Company is fully indemnified
Michigan include the MCCA annual assessments in sent to policyholders as of December 31, 2022. surcharge to policyholders. As of September 30, 2022, for claims and claim expenses and does not retain any
determining the level of premiums to charge insureds the NCRF reported a deficit of $148 million in members’ ultimate risk for the indemnified business. The federal
New Jersey Property-Liability Insurance Guaranty
in the state. equity. The NCRF implemented a loss recoupment government is obligated to pay all claims and certain
Association PLIGA serves as the statutory
surcharge on all private passenger and commercial allocated loss adjustment expenses in accordance with
As required for member companies by the MCCA, administrator of the Unsatisfied Claim and Judgment
fleet policies effective October 1, 2022, through March the arrangement.
the Company reports covered paid and unpaid claims Fund (“UCJF”), Workers’ Compensation Security Fund
31, 2023. Member companies are assessed the
to the MCCA when estimates of loss for a reported and the New Jersey Surplus Lines Insurance Guaranty Congressional authorization for the NFIP is
recoupment surcharge. The loss recoupment
claim are expected to exceed the retention level, the Fund. periodically evaluated and may be subjected to
surcharge will be adjusted on April 1, 2023 and
claims involve certain types of severe injuries, or there freezes, including when the federal government
In addition to its insolvency protection discontinued once losses are recovered. The NCRF
are litigation demands received suggesting the claim experiences a shutdown. FEMA has a NFIP reinsurance
responsibilities, PLIGA reimburses insurers for results are shared by the member companies in
value exceeds certain thresholds. The retention level is program to manage the future exposure of the NFIP
unlimited excess medical benefits (“EMBs”) paid in proportion to their respective North Carolina
adjusted upward every other MCCA fiscal year by the through the transfer of risk to private reinsurance
connection with PIP claims in excess of $75,000 for automobile liability writings. For the fiscal year ending
lesser of 6% or the increase in the Consumer Price companies and capital market investors. Congress is
policies issued or renewed prior to January 1, 1991, and September 30, 2022, net loss was $81 million, including
Index. The retention level will be $600 thousand per evaluating the funding of the program as well as
limited EMB claims in excess of $75,000 and capped at $1.1 billion of earned premiums, $302 million of certain
claim for the fiscal two-years ending June 30, 2023 considering reforms to the program that would be
$250,000 for policies issued or renewed on or after private passenger auto risk recoupment and $37
compared to $580 thousand per claim for the fiscal incorporated in legislation to reauthorize the NFIP. As
January 1, 1991, to December 31, 2003. million of member loss recoupments. As of December
two-years ending June 30, 2021. of June 30, 2022, the NFIP owes $20.5 billion to the
31, 2022, the NCRF recoverables on paid claims is $52
A significant portion of the incurred claim reserves U.S. Treasury.
The MCCA is obligated to fund the ultimate liability million and recoverables on unpaid claims is $240
and the recoverables can be attributed to a small
of member companies’ qualifying claims and claim million. Paid recoverable balances, if covered, are The amounts recoverable as of December 31, 2022
number of catastrophic claims. Assessments paid to
expenses. The MCCA does not underwrite the typically settled within sixty days of monthly filing. and 2021 were $145 million and $34 million,
PLIGA for the EMB program totaled $7 million in 2022.
insurance coverage or hold any underwriting risk. respectively. Premiums earned under the NFIP include
The amounts of paid and unpaid recoverables as of Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund Allstate
$319 million, $350 million and $261 million in 2022, 2021
The MCCA indemnifies members as qualifying December 31, 2022 and 2021 were $330 million and subsidiaries Castle Key Insurance Company (“CKIC”)
and 2020, respectively. Qualifying losses incurred
claims are paid and billed by members to the MCCA. $371 million, respectively. and Castle Key Indemnity Company (“CKI”, and
include $435 million, $267 million and $87 million in
Unlimited lifetime covered losses result in significant together with CKIC, “Castle Key”) participate in the
PLIGA annually assesses all admitted property and 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
levels of ultimate incurred claim reserves being mandatory coverage provided by the FHCF and
casualty insurers writing covered lines in New Jersey
recorded by member companies along with offsetting therefore have access to reimbursement for certain Catastrophe reinsurance
for PLIGA indemnification and expenses. PLIGA
indemnification recoverables. Disputes with claimants qualifying Florida hurricane losses from the FHCF.
assessments may be recouped as a surcharge on The Company’s reinsurance program is designed
over coverage on certain reported claims can result in Castle Key has exposure to assessments and pays
premiums collected. PLIGA does not ultimately retain to provide reinsurance protection for catastrophes
additional losses, which may be recoverable from the annual premiums to the FHCF for this reimbursement
underwriting risk as it assesses member companies for resulting from multiple perils including hurricanes,
MCCA, excluding litigation expenses. There is currently protection. The FHCF has the authority to issue bonds
their expected qualifying losses to provide funding for windstorms, hail, tornadoes, winter storms, wildfires,
no method by which insurers are able to obtain the to pay its obligations to participating insurers in excess
payment of its indemnification obligation to member earthquakes and fires following earthquakes.
benefit of managed care programs to reduce claims of its capital balances. Payment of these bonds is
companies for their actual losses. As a pass through,
costs through the MCCA. funded by emergency assessments on all property and • The Company purchases reinsurance from
PLIGA facilitates these transactions of receipt of
casualty premiums in the state, except workers’ traditional reinsurance companies as well as the
The MCCA annual assessments fund current assessments paid by member companies and payment
compensation, medical malpractice, accident and insurance-linked securities (“ILS”) market.
operations and member company reimbursements. to member companies for covered claims presented by
health insurance and policies written under the
The MCCA prepares statutory-basis financial them for indemnification. As of December 31, 2021, the National Flood Insurance Program (“NFIP”). The FHCF • The majority of the Company’s program comprises
statements in conformity with accounting practices date of its most recent annual financial report, PLIGA emergency assessments are limited to 6% of premiums multi-year contracts, primarily placed in the
prescribed or permitted by the State of Michigan had a fund balance of $268 million. per year beginning the first year in which traditional reinsurance market, such that generally
Department of Insurance and Financial Services (“MI As statutory administrator of the UCJF, PLIGA reimbursements require bonding, and up to a total of one-third of the program is renewed every year.
DOI”). The MI DOI has granted the MCCA a statutory
provides compensation to qualified claimants for 10% of premiums per year for assessments in the • Coverage is generally purchased on a broad
permitted practice that expires in June 30, 2025 to
personal injury protection, bodily injury, or death second and subsequent years, if required to fund geographic, product line and multiple peril loss
discount its liabilities for loss and loss adjustment
caused by private passenger automobiles operated by additional bonding. The FHCF has not issued an basis.
expense. As of June 30, 2022, the date of its most
uninsured or “hit and run” drivers. The UCJF also emergency assessment since 2015.
recent annual financial report, the MCCA had cash and • Florida personal lines property is covered by a
provides private passenger pedestrian personal injury
invested assets of $21.82 billion and an accumulated Annual premiums earned and paid under the FHCF separate agreement, as the risk of loss is different
protection benefits when no other coverage is
deficit of $3.68 billion. The permitted practice reduced agreement were $24 million, $15 million and $9 million and the Company’s subsidiaries operating in this
available.
the accumulated deficit by $44.89 billion. As a result of in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Qualifying losses state are separately capitalized.
this deficit, there will be an additional assessment of PLIGA annually collects a UCJF assessment from were $74 million, $13 million and $15 million in 2022,
$48 per passenger and commercial vehicle and all admitted property and casualty insurers writing 2021 and 2020, respectively. The Company has access • When applicable, reinsurance reinstatement
motorcycle insured beginning July 1, 2023 with varying motor vehicle liability insurance in New Jersey for UCJF to reimbursement provided by the FHCF for 90% of premiums are recognized in the same period as
assessments for commercial fleet and historical indemnification and expenses. UCJF assessments can qualifying personal property losses that exceed its the loss event that gave rise to the reinstatement
vehicles. be expensed as losses recoverable in rates as current retention of $153 million for the two largest premium and are recorded in claims and claims
appropriate. As of December 31, 2021, the date of its hurricanes and $51 million for other hurricanes, up to a expense in the consolidated statements of
As a result of the auto insurance reforms passed in most recent annual financial report, the UCJF fund had maximum total of $350 million, effective from June 1, operations.
June 2019, the MCCA announced on November 3, 2021
that the surplus reported for the fiscal year ended June a balance of $62 million. 2022 to May 31, 2023. The amounts recoverable from The Company’s current catastrophe reinsurance
the FHCF totaled $96 million and $25 million as of
30, 2021 had increased beyond a level necessary to North Carolina Reinsurance Facility The NCRF December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. program supports the Company’s risk tolerance
safely cover its expected losses and expenses and will provides automobile liability insurance to drivers that framework which utilizes a modeled 1-in-100 annual
return a portion of its surplus to its member insurance private market insurers are not otherwise willing to Federal Government - National Flood Insurance aggregate limit for catastrophe losses from hurricanes,
companies as a pass-through to issue a refund of $400 insure. All insurers licensed to write automobile Program NFIP is a program administered by the earthquakes and wildfires of $2.5 billion, net of
per vehicle and $80 per historical vehicle to the insurance in North Carolina are members of the NCRF. Federal Emergency Management Agency (“FEMA”) reinsurance.
policyholders. At the time the returned surplus was Premiums, losses and expenses are assigned to the whereby the Company sells and services NFIP flood
received, a liability was recorded until the refunds were NCRF. North Carolina law allows the NCRF to recoup insurance policies as an agent of FEMA and receives
258 2022 Annual Report 259 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
The program includes coverage for losses to – One contract, providing aggregate coverage of Canada Catastrophe Excess of Loss Reinsurance Other reinsurance programs
personal lines property, personal lines automobile, $175 million of placed limits. Contract is placed in the traditional market and
The Company’s other reinsurance programs relate
commercial lines property or commercial lines provides CAD 175 million of coverage, subject to a CAD
• Traditional single-year placements provide to commercial lines, including shared economy, and
automobile arising out of multiple perils, in addition to 50 million retention, with one reinstatement of limits.
$640 million of placed limits, filling capacity around asbestos, environmental, and other liability exposures.
hurricanes and earthquakes. These reinsurance
the traditional market and insurance-linked The Company has not experienced credit losses on The largest reinsurance recoverable balance the
agreements are part of the catastrophe management
securities multi-year placements: its catastrophe reinsurance programs. The total cost of Company had outstanding was $183 million and $187
strategy, which is intended to provide shareholders an
the property catastrophe reinsurance program was million from Aleka Insurance Inc. as of December 31,
acceptable return on the risks assumed in the property – Three contracts providing $465 million of
$788 million, $556 million and $425 million in 2022, 2022 and 2021, respectively. These programs also
business, and to reduce variability of earnings, while placed limits between $5.94 billion and
2021 and 2020, respectively. include reinsurance recoverables of $180 million and
providing protection to customers. The Company has $6.61 billion of loss, with no reinstatement of
$165 million from Lloyd’s of London as of December 31,
the following catastrophe reinsurance agreements in limits.
2022 and 2021, respectively.
effect as of December 31, 2022.
– Two contracts providing $175 million of placed
The Nationwide Excess Catastrophe Reinsurance limits between $3.75 billion and $5.94 billion of
Program (the “Nationwide Program”) provides coverage loss, with no reinstatement limits. Note 12 Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs
up to $7.01 billion of losses less a $500 million
The Kentucky earthquake agreement comprises a
retention, and is subject to the percentage of Deferred policy acquisition costs activity
three-year term contract that reinsures personal lines
reinsurance placed in each of its agreements. Property For the years ended December 31,
property losses caused by earthquakes and fire
business in the state of Florida is excluded from this ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
following earthquakes in Kentucky and provides
program. Separate reinsurance agreements address
Balance, beginning of year $ 4,722 $ 3,774 $ 3,600
$28 million of limits, 95% placed, in excess of a
the distinct needs of separately capitalized legal
$2 million retention. National General acquisition — 317 —
entities. The Nationwide Program includes reinsurance
SafeAuto acquisition — 7 —
agreements with both the traditional and ILS markets The Florida program provides limit up to
Acquisition costs deferred 7,337 6,874 5,651
as described below: $1.83 billion of a single event loss, less a $40 million
Amortization charged to income (6,644) (6,252) (5,477)
retention. The Florida program includes reinsurance
• The traditional market multi-year placements
Effect of unrealized gains and losses 3 2 —
agreements placed in the traditional market, the FHCF,
provide limits totaling $3.89 billion for catastrophe
and the ILS market as follows: Balance, end of year $ 5,418 $ 4,722 $ 3,774
losses arising out of multiple perils and are
comprised of the following: • Traditional market placements comprise
reinsurance limits for losses to personal lines
– $3.56 billion of placed limits attaching at
property in Florida arising out of multiple perils.
$500 million, exhausting at $3.75 billion, with a
These contracts provide a combined $1.30 billion
5% co-participation. Coverage is provided in
of limits, with a portion of the traditional market
four contracts with one annual reinstatement
placements providing coverage for perils not
of limits. 31.7% of the first $250 million in
covered by the FHCF contracts, which only cover
excess of $500 million is retained by Allstate.
hurricanes.
– $331 million of placed limits in excess of a
• Two FHCF contracts provide $350 million of limits
$3.75 billion retention, with a 5% co-
for qualifying losses to personal lines property in
participation. Coverage is provided in two
Florida caused by storms the National Hurricane
contracts, with one reinstatement of limits
Center declares to be hurricanes. Both contracts
over each contract’s eight-year term.
are 90% placed.
• ILS placements provide $1.55 billion of placed
• The ILS placement provides $488 million of
limits, with no reinstatement of limits, and are
reinsurance limit for qualifying losses to personal
comprised of the following:
lines property in Florida caused by a named storm
– Five contracts providing occurrence coverage event, a severe weather event, an earthquake
of $950 million of placed limits, reinsuring event, a fire event, a volcanic eruption event, or a
losses in all states except Florida caused by meteorite impact event.
named storms, earthquakes and fire following
National General Lender Services Standalone
earthquakes, severe weather, wildfires, and
Program is placed in the traditional market and
other naturally occurring or man-made events
provides $225 million of coverage, subject to a
determined to be a catastrophe by the
$50 million retention, with one reinstatement of limits.
Company.
Inuring contracts include the National General Florida
– Three contracts providing occurrence and Hurricane Catastrophe Program providing $32 million
aggregate coverage of $425 million of placed of limit and is 90% placed.
limits, also provide that for each annual period
National General Reciprocal Excess Catastrophe
beginning April 1, Allstate declared
Reinsurance Contracts are placed in the traditional
catastrophes to personal lines property and
market and provides $690 million of coverage, subject
automobile business can be aggregated to
to a $20 million retention, with one reinstatement of
erode the aggregate retention and qualify for
limits.
coverage under the aggregate limits.
Recoveries are limited to the ultimate net loss
from the reinsured event.
260 2022 Annual Report 261 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
The program includes coverage for losses to – One contract, providing aggregate coverage of Canada Catastrophe Excess of Loss Reinsurance Other reinsurance programs
personal lines property, personal lines automobile, $175 million of placed limits. Contract is placed in the traditional market and
The Company’s other reinsurance programs relate
commercial lines property or commercial lines provides CAD 175 million of coverage, subject to a CAD
• Traditional single-year placements provide to commercial lines, including shared economy, and
automobile arising out of multiple perils, in addition to 50 million retention, with one reinstatement of limits.
$640 million of placed limits, filling capacity around asbestos, environmental, and other liability exposures.
hurricanes and earthquakes. These reinsurance
the traditional market and insurance-linked The Company has not experienced credit losses on The largest reinsurance recoverable balance the
agreements are part of the catastrophe management
securities multi-year placements: its catastrophe reinsurance programs. The total cost of Company had outstanding was $183 million and $187
strategy, which is intended to provide shareholders an
the property catastrophe reinsurance program was million from Aleka Insurance Inc. as of December 31,
acceptable return on the risks assumed in the property – Three contracts providing $465 million of
$788 million, $556 million and $425 million in 2022, 2022 and 2021, respectively. These programs also
business, and to reduce variability of earnings, while placed limits between $5.94 billion and
2021 and 2020, respectively. include reinsurance recoverables of $180 million and
providing protection to customers. The Company has $6.61 billion of loss, with no reinstatement of
$165 million from Lloyd’s of London as of December 31,
the following catastrophe reinsurance agreements in limits.
2022 and 2021, respectively.
effect as of December 31, 2022.
– Two contracts providing $175 million of placed
The Nationwide Excess Catastrophe Reinsurance limits between $3.75 billion and $5.94 billion of
Program (the “Nationwide Program”) provides coverage loss, with no reinstatement limits. Note 12 Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs
up to $7.01 billion of losses less a $500 million
The Kentucky earthquake agreement comprises a
retention, and is subject to the percentage of Deferred policy acquisition costs activity
three-year term contract that reinsures personal lines
reinsurance placed in each of its agreements. Property For the years ended December 31,
property losses caused by earthquakes and fire
business in the state of Florida is excluded from this ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
following earthquakes in Kentucky and provides
program. Separate reinsurance agreements address
Balance, beginning of year $ 4,722 $ 3,774 $ 3,600
$28 million of limits, 95% placed, in excess of a
the distinct needs of separately capitalized legal
$2 million retention. National General acquisition — 317 —
entities. The Nationwide Program includes reinsurance
SafeAuto acquisition — 7 —
agreements with both the traditional and ILS markets The Florida program provides limit up to
Acquisition costs deferred 7,337 6,874 5,651
as described below: $1.83 billion of a single event loss, less a $40 million
Amortization charged to income (6,644) (6,252) (5,477)
retention. The Florida program includes reinsurance
• The traditional market multi-year placements
Effect of unrealized gains and losses 3 2 —
agreements placed in the traditional market, the FHCF,
provide limits totaling $3.89 billion for catastrophe
and the ILS market as follows: Balance, end of year $ 5,418 $ 4,722 $ 3,774
losses arising out of multiple perils and are
comprised of the following: • Traditional market placements comprise
reinsurance limits for losses to personal lines
– $3.56 billion of placed limits attaching at
property in Florida arising out of multiple perils.
$500 million, exhausting at $3.75 billion, with a
These contracts provide a combined $1.30 billion
5% co-participation. Coverage is provided in
of limits, with a portion of the traditional market
four contracts with one annual reinstatement
placements providing coverage for perils not
of limits. 31.7% of the first $250 million in
covered by the FHCF contracts, which only cover
excess of $500 million is retained by Allstate.
hurricanes.
– $331 million of placed limits in excess of a
• Two FHCF contracts provide $350 million of limits
$3.75 billion retention, with a 5% co-
for qualifying losses to personal lines property in
participation. Coverage is provided in two
Florida caused by storms the National Hurricane
contracts, with one reinstatement of limits
Center declares to be hurricanes. Both contracts
over each contract’s eight-year term.
are 90% placed.
• ILS placements provide $1.55 billion of placed
• The ILS placement provides $488 million of
limits, with no reinstatement of limits, and are
reinsurance limit for qualifying losses to personal
comprised of the following:
lines property in Florida caused by a named storm
– Five contracts providing occurrence coverage event, a severe weather event, an earthquake
of $950 million of placed limits, reinsuring event, a fire event, a volcanic eruption event, or a
losses in all states except Florida caused by meteorite impact event.
named storms, earthquakes and fire following
National General Lender Services Standalone
earthquakes, severe weather, wildfires, and
Program is placed in the traditional market and
other naturally occurring or man-made events
provides $225 million of coverage, subject to a
determined to be a catastrophe by the
$50 million retention, with one reinstatement of limits.
Company.
Inuring contracts include the National General Florida
– Three contracts providing occurrence and Hurricane Catastrophe Program providing $32 million
aggregate coverage of $425 million of placed of limit and is 90% placed.
limits, also provide that for each annual period
National General Reciprocal Excess Catastrophe
beginning April 1, Allstate declared
Reinsurance Contracts are placed in the traditional
catastrophes to personal lines property and
market and provides $690 million of coverage, subject
automobile business can be aggregated to
to a $20 million retention, with one reinstatement of
erode the aggregate retention and qualify for
limits.
coverage under the aggregate limits.
Recoveries are limited to the ultimate net loss
from the reinsured event.
260 2022 Annual Report 261 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 13 Capital Structure redemption date, and then quarterly at an annual rate the sale of common stock or certain other qualifying
equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 2.938%. The securities. The promises and covenants contained in
Company may elect to defer payment of interest on the RCC will not apply if (i) S&P upgrades the
Total debt outstanding
the Subordinated Debentures for one or more Company’s issuer credit rating to A or above, (ii) the
As of December 31,
consecutive interest periods that do not exceed five Company redeems the Debentures due to a tax event,
($ in millions) 2022 2021
years. During a deferral period, interest will continue to (iii) after notice of redemption has been given by the
Floating Rate Senior Notes, due 2023 (1) $ 250 $ 250 accrue on the Subordinated Debentures at the then- Company and a market disruption event occurs
3.150% Senior Notes, due 2023 (2) 500 500 applicable rate and deferred interest will compound on preventing the Company from raising proceeds in
6.750% Senior Notes due 2024 (2) (3) 350 350 each interest payment date. If all deferred interest on accordance with the RCC, or (iv) the Company
0.750% Senior Notes, due 2025 (2) 600 600 the Subordinated Debentures is paid, the Company repurchases or redeems up to 10% of the outstanding
3.280% Senior Notes, due 2026 (2) 550 550 can again defer interest payments. principal of the Debentures in any one-year period,
provided that no more than 25% will be so
Due in one year through five years 2,250 2,250 As of December 31, 2022, the Company had
repurchased, redeemed or purchased in any ten-year
1.450% Senior Notes, due 2030 (2) 600 600 outstanding $500 million of Series A 6.500% Fixed-to-
period.
6.125% Senior Notes, due 2032 (2) 159 159 Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures
Due after five years through ten years 759 759 (“Debentures”). The scheduled maturity date for the The RCC terminates in 2067. The RCC will
5.350% Senior Notes due 2033 (2) 323 323 Debentures is May 15, 2057 with a final maturity date of terminate prior to its scheduled termination date if
May 15, 2067. The Debentures may be redeemed (i) in (i) the Debentures are no longer outstanding and the
5.550% Senior Notes due 2035 (2) 546 546
whole or in part, at any time on or after May 15, 2037 at Company has fulfilled its obligations under the RCC or
5.950% Senior Notes, due 2036 (2) 386 386
the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest it is no longer applicable, (ii) the holders of a majority of
6.900% Senior Debentures, due 2038 165 165
to the date of redemption, or (ii) in certain the then-outstanding principal amount of the then-
5.200% Senior Notes, due 2042 (2) 62 62
circumstances, in whole or in part, prior to May 15, 2037 effective series of covered debt consent to agree to
4.500% Senior Notes, due 2043 (2) 500 500 at the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid the termination of the RCC, (iii) the Company does not
4.200% Senior Notes, due 2046 (2) 700 700 interest to the date of redemption or, if greater, a have any series of outstanding debt that is eligible to
3.850% Senior Notes, due 2049 (2) 500 500 make-whole price. be treated as covered debt under the RCC, (iv) the
5.100% Subordinated Debentures, due 2053 500 500 Debentures are accelerated as a result of an event of
Interest on the Debentures is payable semi-
5.750% Subordinated Debentures, due 2053 800 800 default, (v) certain rating agency or change in control
annually at the stated fixed annual rate to May 15,
events occur, (vi) S&P, or any successor thereto, no
6.500% Junior Subordinated Debentures, due 2067 500 500 2037, and then payable quarterly at an annual rate
longer assigns a solicited rating on senior debt issued
Due after ten years 4,982 4,982 equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 2.120%. The
or guaranteed by the Company, or (vii) the termination
Company may elect at one or more times to defer
Long-term debt total principal 7,991 7,991 of the RCC would have no effect on the equity credit
payment of interest on the Debentures for one or more
Fair value adjustments (3) 26 45 provided by S&P with respect to the Debentures. An
consecutive interest periods that do not exceed
Debt issuance costs (53) (60) event of default, as defined by the supplemental
10 years. Interest compounds during such deferral
indenture, includes default in the payment of interest
Total long-term debt 7,964 7,976 periods at the rate in effect for each period. The
or principal and bankruptcy proceedings.
Short-term debt (4) — — interest deferral feature obligates the Company in
Total debt $ 7,964 $ 7,976 certain circumstances to issue common stock or The administrator of London Interbank Offered
certain other types of securities if it cannot otherwise Rate (“LIBOR”) has ceased the publication of the one
(1) 2023 Floating Rate Senior Notes are not redeemable prior to the applicable maturity dates and bear interest at a floating rate raise sufficient funds to make the required interest week and two month U.S. dollar (“USD”) LIBOR settings
equal to three-month LIBOR, reset quarterly on each interest reset date, plus 0.63% per year.
payments. The Company has reserved 75 million since December 31, 2021, and the remaining USD
(2)Senior Notes are subject to redemption at the Company’s option in whole or in part at any time at the greater of either 100% shares of its authorized and unissued common stock to LIBOR settings will immediately cease following the
of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date or the discounted sum of the present values satisfy this obligation. LIBOR publication on June 30, 2023. The Subordinated
of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest and accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date.
Debentures and the 2023 Floating Rate Senior Notes
(3)Debt acquired as part of the National General acquisition completed on January 4, 2021. The terms of the Company’s outstanding allow for the use of an alternative methodology to
(4)The Company classifies any borrowings which have a maturity of twelve months or less at inception as short-term debt. subordinated debentures prohibit the Company from determine the interest rate if LIBOR is no longer
declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on
available. The Federal Reserve Board adopted a final
Debt maturities Debentures are not redeemed in whole, at least $25 common or preferred stock or redeeming, purchasing,
rule that implemented the Adjustable Interest Rate
million aggregate principal amount must remain acquiring, or making liquidation payments on common
Debt maturities for each of the next five years outstanding, or (ii) in whole, but not in part, prior to stock or preferred stock if the Company has elected to (LIBOR) Act on December 16, 2022. This guidance
and thereafter (excluding issuance costs and other) impacts the alternative rate methodology utilized by
January 15, 2023 for the 5.100% Subordinated defer interest payments on the subordinated
($ in millions) Debentures and August 15, 2023 for the 5.750% debentures, subject to certain limited exceptions. the Subordinated Debentures. The Company is
2023 $ 750 Subordinated Debentures, within 90 days after the evaluating the anticipated impacts of the enacted
2024 350 occurrence of certain tax and rating agency events, at In connection with the issuance of the Debentures, legislation.
2025 600 their principal amount or, if greater, a make-whole the Company entered into a replacement capital To manage short-term liquidity, the Company
2026 550 redemption price, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, covenant (“RCC”). This covenant was not intended for maintains a commercial paper program and a credit
2027 — but excluding, the date of redemption. The 5.750% the benefit of the holders of the Debentures and could facility as a potential source of funds. In November,
Thereafter 5,741 Subordinated Debentures have this make-whole not be enforced by them. Rather, it was for the benefit 2020, the Company entered into a new unsecured
redemption price provision only when a reduction of of holders of one or more other designated series of revolving credit facility agreement with a borrowing
Total long-term debt principal $ 7,991 equity credit assigned by a rating agency has occurred. the Company’s indebtedness (“covered debt”), limit of $750 million. In November 2022, the maturity
currently the 5.750% Subordinated Debentures due
date was extended to November 2027 and the USD
The Subordinated Debentures may be redeemed Interest on the 5.100% Subordinated Debentures is 2053. Pursuant to the RCC, the Company has agreed
benchmark rate was amended from LIBOR to Secured
(i) in whole at any time or in part from time to time on payable quarterly at the stated fixed annual rate to that it will not repay, redeem, or purchase the
Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”). This facility
or after January 15, 2023 for the 5.100% Subordinated January 14, 2023, or any earlier redemption date, and Debentures on or before May 15, 2067 (or such earlier
contains an increase provision that would allow up to
Debentures and August 15, 2023 for the 5.750% then at an annual rate equal to the three-month LIBOR date on which the RCC terminates by its terms) unless,
an additional $500 million of borrowing. This facility has
Subordinated Debentures at their principal amount plus 3.165%. Interest on the 5.750% Subordinated subject to certain limitations, the Company has
a financial covenant requiring the Company not to
plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Debentures is payable semi-annually at the stated received net cash proceeds in specified amounts from
exceed a 37.5% debt to capitalization ratio as defined
date of redemption; provided that if the Subordinated fixed annual rate to August 14, 2023, or any earlier
262 2022 Annual Report 263 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 13 Capital Structure redemption date, and then quarterly at an annual rate the sale of common stock or certain other qualifying
equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 2.938%. The securities. The promises and covenants contained in
Company may elect to defer payment of interest on the RCC will not apply if (i) S&P upgrades the
Total debt outstanding
the Subordinated Debentures for one or more Company’s issuer credit rating to A or above, (ii) the
As of December 31,
consecutive interest periods that do not exceed five Company redeems the Debentures due to a tax event,
($ in millions) 2022 2021
years. During a deferral period, interest will continue to (iii) after notice of redemption has been given by the
Floating Rate Senior Notes, due 2023 (1) $ 250 $ 250 accrue on the Subordinated Debentures at the then- Company and a market disruption event occurs
3.150% Senior Notes, due 2023 (2) 500 500 applicable rate and deferred interest will compound on preventing the Company from raising proceeds in
6.750% Senior Notes due 2024 (2) (3) 350 350 each interest payment date. If all deferred interest on accordance with the RCC, or (iv) the Company
0.750% Senior Notes, due 2025 (2) 600 600 the Subordinated Debentures is paid, the Company repurchases or redeems up to 10% of the outstanding
3.280% Senior Notes, due 2026 (2) 550 550 can again defer interest payments. principal of the Debentures in any one-year period,
provided that no more than 25% will be so
Due in one year through five years 2,250 2,250 As of December 31, 2022, the Company had
repurchased, redeemed or purchased in any ten-year
1.450% Senior Notes, due 2030 (2) 600 600 outstanding $500 million of Series A 6.500% Fixed-to-
period.
6.125% Senior Notes, due 2032 (2) 159 159 Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures
Due after five years through ten years 759 759 (“Debentures”). The scheduled maturity date for the The RCC terminates in 2067. The RCC will
5.350% Senior Notes due 2033 (2) 323 323 Debentures is May 15, 2057 with a final maturity date of terminate prior to its scheduled termination date if
May 15, 2067. The Debentures may be redeemed (i) in (i) the Debentures are no longer outstanding and the
5.550% Senior Notes due 2035 (2) 546 546
whole or in part, at any time on or after May 15, 2037 at Company has fulfilled its obligations under the RCC or
5.950% Senior Notes, due 2036 (2) 386 386
the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest it is no longer applicable, (ii) the holders of a majority of
6.900% Senior Debentures, due 2038 165 165
to the date of redemption, or (ii) in certain the then-outstanding principal amount of the then-
5.200% Senior Notes, due 2042 (2) 62 62
circumstances, in whole or in part, prior to May 15, 2037 effective series of covered debt consent to agree to
4.500% Senior Notes, due 2043 (2) 500 500 at the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid the termination of the RCC, (iii) the Company does not
4.200% Senior Notes, due 2046 (2) 700 700 interest to the date of redemption or, if greater, a have any series of outstanding debt that is eligible to
3.850% Senior Notes, due 2049 (2) 500 500 make-whole price. be treated as covered debt under the RCC, (iv) the
5.100% Subordinated Debentures, due 2053 500 500 Debentures are accelerated as a result of an event of
Interest on the Debentures is payable semi-
5.750% Subordinated Debentures, due 2053 800 800 default, (v) certain rating agency or change in control
annually at the stated fixed annual rate to May 15,
events occur, (vi) S&P, or any successor thereto, no
6.500% Junior Subordinated Debentures, due 2067 500 500 2037, and then payable quarterly at an annual rate
longer assigns a solicited rating on senior debt issued
Due after ten years 4,982 4,982 equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 2.120%. The
or guaranteed by the Company, or (vii) the termination
Company may elect at one or more times to defer
Long-term debt total principal 7,991 7,991 of the RCC would have no effect on the equity credit
payment of interest on the Debentures for one or more
Fair value adjustments (3) 26 45 provided by S&P with respect to the Debentures. An
consecutive interest periods that do not exceed
Debt issuance costs (53) (60) event of default, as defined by the supplemental
10 years. Interest compounds during such deferral
indenture, includes default in the payment of interest
Total long-term debt 7,964 7,976 periods at the rate in effect for each period. The
or principal and bankruptcy proceedings.
Short-term debt (4) — — interest deferral feature obligates the Company in
Total debt $ 7,964 $ 7,976 certain circumstances to issue common stock or The administrator of London Interbank Offered
certain other types of securities if it cannot otherwise Rate (“LIBOR”) has ceased the publication of the one
(1) 2023 Floating Rate Senior Notes are not redeemable prior to the applicable maturity dates and bear interest at a floating rate raise sufficient funds to make the required interest week and two month U.S. dollar (“USD”) LIBOR settings
equal to three-month LIBOR, reset quarterly on each interest reset date, plus 0.63% per year.
payments. The Company has reserved 75 million since December 31, 2021, and the remaining USD
(2)Senior Notes are subject to redemption at the Company’s option in whole or in part at any time at the greater of either 100% shares of its authorized and unissued common stock to LIBOR settings will immediately cease following the
of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date or the discounted sum of the present values satisfy this obligation. LIBOR publication on June 30, 2023. The Subordinated
of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest and accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date.
Debentures and the 2023 Floating Rate Senior Notes
(3)Debt acquired as part of the National General acquisition completed on January 4, 2021. The terms of the Company’s outstanding allow for the use of an alternative methodology to
(4)The Company classifies any borrowings which have a maturity of twelve months or less at inception as short-term debt. subordinated debentures prohibit the Company from determine the interest rate if LIBOR is no longer
declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on
available. The Federal Reserve Board adopted a final
Debt maturities Debentures are not redeemed in whole, at least $25 common or preferred stock or redeeming, purchasing,
rule that implemented the Adjustable Interest Rate
million aggregate principal amount must remain acquiring, or making liquidation payments on common
Debt maturities for each of the next five years outstanding, or (ii) in whole, but not in part, prior to stock or preferred stock if the Company has elected to (LIBOR) Act on December 16, 2022. This guidance
and thereafter (excluding issuance costs and other) impacts the alternative rate methodology utilized by
January 15, 2023 for the 5.100% Subordinated defer interest payments on the subordinated
($ in millions) Debentures and August 15, 2023 for the 5.750% debentures, subject to certain limited exceptions. the Subordinated Debentures. The Company is
2023 $ 750 Subordinated Debentures, within 90 days after the evaluating the anticipated impacts of the enacted
2024 350 occurrence of certain tax and rating agency events, at In connection with the issuance of the Debentures, legislation.
2025 600 their principal amount or, if greater, a make-whole the Company entered into a replacement capital To manage short-term liquidity, the Company
2026 550 redemption price, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, covenant (“RCC”). This covenant was not intended for maintains a commercial paper program and a credit
2027 — but excluding, the date of redemption. The 5.750% the benefit of the holders of the Debentures and could facility as a potential source of funds. In November,
Thereafter 5,741 Subordinated Debentures have this make-whole not be enforced by them. Rather, it was for the benefit 2020, the Company entered into a new unsecured
redemption price provision only when a reduction of of holders of one or more other designated series of revolving credit facility agreement with a borrowing
Total long-term debt principal $ 7,991 equity credit assigned by a rating agency has occurred. the Company’s indebtedness (“covered debt”), limit of $750 million. In November 2022, the maturity
currently the 5.750% Subordinated Debentures due
date was extended to November 2027 and the USD
The Subordinated Debentures may be redeemed Interest on the 5.100% Subordinated Debentures is 2053. Pursuant to the RCC, the Company has agreed
benchmark rate was amended from LIBOR to Secured
(i) in whole at any time or in part from time to time on payable quarterly at the stated fixed annual rate to that it will not repay, redeem, or purchase the
Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”). This facility
or after January 15, 2023 for the 5.100% Subordinated January 14, 2023, or any earlier redemption date, and Debentures on or before May 15, 2067 (or such earlier
contains an increase provision that would allow up to
Debentures and August 15, 2023 for the 5.750% then at an annual rate equal to the three-month LIBOR date on which the RCC terminates by its terms) unless,
an additional $500 million of borrowing. This facility has
Subordinated Debentures at their principal amount plus 3.165%. Interest on the 5.750% Subordinated subject to certain limitations, the Company has
a financial covenant requiring the Company not to
plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Debentures is payable semi-annually at the stated received net cash proceeds in specified amounts from
exceed a 37.5% debt to capitalization ratio as defined
date of redemption; provided that if the Subordinated fixed annual rate to August 14, 2023, or any earlier
262 2022 Annual Report 263 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
in the agreement. Although the right to borrow under During 2021, the Company filed a universal shelf quarter test date and the most recently completed constituting the Company’s board of directors will be
the facility is not subject to a minimum rating registration statement with the Securities and quarter has declined by 20% or more from its level as increased by two. The holders of the preferred stock,
requirement, the costs of maintaining the facility and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) that expires in 2024. The measured at the end of the benchmark quarter (the together with the holders of all other affected classes
borrowing under it are based on the ratings of the registration statement covers an unspecified amount date that is ten quarters prior to the most recently and series of voting parity stock, voting as a single
Company’s senior unsecured, unguaranteed long-term of securities and can be used to issue debt securities, completed quarter). If the Company fails to satisfy class, will be entitled to elect the two additional
debt. The total amount outstanding at any point in common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, either of these tests on any dividend declaration date, members of the board of directors of the Company,
time under the combination of the commercial paper warrants, stock purchase contracts, stock purchase the restrictions on dividends will continue until the subject to certain conditions. The board of directors
program and the credit facility cannot exceed the units and securities of trust subsidiaries. Company is able again to satisfy the test on a dividend shall at no time have more than two preferred stock
amount that can be borrowed under the credit facility. declaration date. In addition, in the case of a restriction directors.
Common stock The Company had 900 million
No amounts were outstanding under the credit facility arising under (2) above, the restrictions on dividends
shares of issued common stock of which 263 million The preferred stock is perpetual and has no
as of December 31, 2022 or 2021. The Company had no will continue until consolidated shareholders’ equity
shares were outstanding and 637 million shares were maturity date. The preferred stock is redeemable at
commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, (excluding AOCI, and subject to certain other
held in treasury as of December 31, 2022. In 2022, the the Company’s option in whole or in part, on or after
2022 or 2021. adjustments relating to changes in U.S. GAAP) has
Company acquired 20 million shares at an average cost April 15, 2023 for Series G, October 15, 2024 for Series
increased, or has declined by less than 20%, in either
The Company paid $323 million, $321 million and of $126.56 and reissued 3 million net shares under H and January 15, 2025 for Series I at a redemption
case as compared to its level at the end of the
$311 million of interest on debt in 2022, 2021 and 2020, equity incentive plans. price of $25,000 per share of preferred stock, plus
benchmark quarter for each dividend payment date as
respectively. declared and unpaid dividends. Prior to April 15, 2023
Preferred stock All outstanding preferred stock to which dividend restrictions were imposed.
for Series G, October 15, 2024 for Series H and January
The Company had $371 million and $401 million of represents noncumulative perpetual preferred stock
The preferred stock does not have voting rights 15, 2025 for Series I, the preferred stock is redeemable
investment-related debt that is reported in other with a $1.00 par value per share and a liquidation
except with respect to certain changes in the terms of at the Company’s option, in whole but not in part,
liabilities and accrued expenses as of December 31, preference of $25,000 per share.
the preferred stock, in the case of certain dividend within 90 days of the occurrence of certain regulatory
2022 and 2021, respectively.
nonpayments, certain other fundamental corporate capital events at a redemption price equal to $25,000
events, mergers or consolidations and as otherwise or $25,500 per share or a certain rating agency event
Total preferred stock outstanding
provided by law. If and when dividends have not been at a redemption price equal to $25,000 or $25,500 per
Aggregate
liquidation Aggregate dividend declared and paid in full for at least six quarterly share, plus declared and unpaid dividends for Series G
preference Dividend per payment ($ in dividend periods or their equivalent (whether or not and for Series H and I, respectively.
As of December 31, ($ in millions) depository share (1) millions) consecutive), the authorized number of directors then
Dividend
2022 2021 2022 2021 rate 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 Note 14 Company Restructuring
Series A — — $ — $ — 5.625 % $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 4 (2)
Series G 23,000 23,000 575.0 575.0 5.625 % 1.41 1.41 1.41 32 32 32 The Company undertakes various programs to operating efficiency and reduce cost which may result
reduce expenses. These programs generally involve a in additional restructuring charges in the future.
Series H 46,000 46,000 1,150.0 1,150.0 5.100 % 1.28 1.28 1.28 59 59 59
reduction in staffing levels, and in certain cases, office
Series I 12,000 12,000 300.0 300.0 4.750 % 1.19 1.19 1.19 14 14 13
closures. Restructuring and related charges primarily Future work environment
National General include the following costs related to these programs: ($ in millions)
Series (3) — 9 —
Expected program charges $ 110
Total 81,000 81,000 $ 2,025 $ 2,025 $ 105 $ 114 $ 108 • Employee - severance and relocation benefits
2021 expenses (131)
(1) Each depository share represents a 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock. • Exit - contract termination penalties and real estate 2022 expenses (8)
costs primarily related to accelerated amortization
(2)Excludes $10 million related to original issuance costs in preferred stock dividends on the Consolidated Statements of Operations Changes in estimated program costs 41
of right-of-use assets and related leasehold
and Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity as a result of the preferred stock redemptions. Remaining program charges $ 12
improvements at facilities to be vacated
(3)On February 2, 2021 and July 15, 2021, the Company redeemed all outstanding shares of National General Preferred Stock Series A,
B and D, and National General Preferred Stock Series C, respectively. The expenses related to these activities are These charges are primarily recorded in the
included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations Allstate Protection segment. Exit costs of this program
The preferred stock ranks senior to the Company’s the full dividends for the latest completed dividend
as restructuring and related charges and totaled $51 reflect real estate costs primarily related to
common stock with respect to the payment of period on the preferred stock have been declared and
million, $170 million and $253 million in 2022, 2021 and accelerated amortization of right-of-use assets and
dividends and liquidation rights. The Company will pay paid or provided for.
2020, respectively. related leasehold improvements at facilities to be
dividends on the preferred stock on a noncumulative
The Company is prohibited from declaring or vacated. The actions related to the future work
basis only when, as and if declared by the Company’s Restructuring expenses in 2022 are primarily due
paying dividends on its Series G preferred stock in environment are substantially complete as of
board of directors (or a duly authorized committee of to the future work environment as the Company
excess of the amount of net proceeds from an issuance December 31, 2022.
the board) and to the extent that the Company has reevaluates its facilities footprint and employee costs
of common stock taking place within 90 days before a
legally available funds to pay dividends. If dividends related to global workforce enablement, including
dividend declaration date if, on that dividend
are declared on the preferred stock, they will be outsourcing various elements of its operations. The
declaration date, either: (1) the risk-based capital ratios
payable quarterly in arrears at an annual fixed rate. Company continues to identify ways to improve
of the largest U.S. property-casualty insurance
Dividends on the preferred stock are not cumulative.
subsidiaries that collectively account for 80% or more
Accordingly, in the event dividends are not declared on Restructuring activity during the period
of the net written premiums of U.S. property-casualty
the preferred stock for payment on any dividend Employee
payment date, then those dividends will cease to be insurance business on a weighted average basis were ($ in millions) costs Exit costs Total liability
less than 175% of their company action level risk-based
payable. If the Company has not declared a dividend Restructuring liability as of December 31, 2021 $ 14 $ 7 $ 21
capital as of the end of the most recent year; or
before the dividend payment date for any dividend Expense incurred 31 29 60
(2) consolidated net income for the four-quarter period
period, the Company has no obligation to pay Adjustments to liability (9) — (9)
ending on the preliminary quarter end test date (the
dividends for that dividend period, whether or not Payments and non-cash charges (9) (29) (38)
quarter that is two quarters prior to the most recently
dividends are declared for any future dividend period.
completed quarter) is zero or negative and Restructuring liability as of December 31, 2022 $ 27 $ 7 $ 34
No dividends may be paid or declared on the
consolidated shareholders’ equity (excluding AOCI, and
Company’s common stock and no shares of the
subject to certain other adjustments relating to As of December 31, 2022, the cumulative amount incurred to date for active programs related to employee
Company’s common stock may be repurchased unless
changes in U.S. GAAP) as of each of the preliminary severance, relocation benefits and exit expenses totaled $29 million for employee costs and $146 million for exit costs.
264 2022 Annual Report 265 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
in the agreement. Although the right to borrow under During 2021, the Company filed a universal shelf quarter test date and the most recently completed constituting the Company’s board of directors will be
the facility is not subject to a minimum rating registration statement with the Securities and quarter has declined by 20% or more from its level as increased by two. The holders of the preferred stock,
requirement, the costs of maintaining the facility and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) that expires in 2024. The measured at the end of the benchmark quarter (the together with the holders of all other affected classes
borrowing under it are based on the ratings of the registration statement covers an unspecified amount date that is ten quarters prior to the most recently and series of voting parity stock, voting as a single
Company’s senior unsecured, unguaranteed long-term of securities and can be used to issue debt securities, completed quarter). If the Company fails to satisfy class, will be entitled to elect the two additional
debt. The total amount outstanding at any point in common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, either of these tests on any dividend declaration date, members of the board of directors of the Company,
time under the combination of the commercial paper warrants, stock purchase contracts, stock purchase the restrictions on dividends will continue until the subject to certain conditions. The board of directors
program and the credit facility cannot exceed the units and securities of trust subsidiaries. Company is able again to satisfy the test on a dividend shall at no time have more than two preferred stock
amount that can be borrowed under the credit facility. declaration date. In addition, in the case of a restriction directors.
Common stock The Company had 900 million
No amounts were outstanding under the credit facility arising under (2) above, the restrictions on dividends
shares of issued common stock of which 263 million The preferred stock is perpetual and has no
as of December 31, 2022 or 2021. The Company had no will continue until consolidated shareholders’ equity
shares were outstanding and 637 million shares were maturity date. The preferred stock is redeemable at
commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, (excluding AOCI, and subject to certain other
held in treasury as of December 31, 2022. In 2022, the the Company’s option in whole or in part, on or after
2022 or 2021. adjustments relating to changes in U.S. GAAP) has
Company acquired 20 million shares at an average cost April 15, 2023 for Series G, October 15, 2024 for Series
increased, or has declined by less than 20%, in either
The Company paid $323 million, $321 million and of $126.56 and reissued 3 million net shares under H and January 15, 2025 for Series I at a redemption
case as compared to its level at the end of the
$311 million of interest on debt in 2022, 2021 and 2020, equity incentive plans. price of $25,000 per share of preferred stock, plus
benchmark quarter for each dividend payment date as
respectively. declared and unpaid dividends. Prior to April 15, 2023
Preferred stock All outstanding preferred stock to which dividend restrictions were imposed.
for Series G, October 15, 2024 for Series H and January
The Company had $371 million and $401 million of represents noncumulative perpetual preferred stock
The preferred stock does not have voting rights 15, 2025 for Series I, the preferred stock is redeemable
investment-related debt that is reported in other with a $1.00 par value per share and a liquidation
except with respect to certain changes in the terms of at the Company’s option, in whole but not in part,
liabilities and accrued expenses as of December 31, preference of $25,000 per share.
the preferred stock, in the case of certain dividend within 90 days of the occurrence of certain regulatory
2022 and 2021, respectively.
nonpayments, certain other fundamental corporate capital events at a redemption price equal to $25,000
events, mergers or consolidations and as otherwise or $25,500 per share or a certain rating agency event
Total preferred stock outstanding
provided by law. If and when dividends have not been at a redemption price equal to $25,000 or $25,500 per
Aggregate
liquidation Aggregate dividend declared and paid in full for at least six quarterly share, plus declared and unpaid dividends for Series G
preference Dividend per payment ($ in dividend periods or their equivalent (whether or not and for Series H and I, respectively.
As of December 31, ($ in millions) depository share (1) millions) consecutive), the authorized number of directors then
Dividend
2022 2021 2022 2021 rate 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 Note 14 Company Restructuring
Series A — — $ — $ — 5.625 % $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 4 (2)
Series G 23,000 23,000 575.0 575.0 5.625 % 1.41 1.41 1.41 32 32 32 The Company undertakes various programs to operating efficiency and reduce cost which may result
reduce expenses. These programs generally involve a in additional restructuring charges in the future.
Series H 46,000 46,000 1,150.0 1,150.0 5.100 % 1.28 1.28 1.28 59 59 59
reduction in staffing levels, and in certain cases, office
Series I 12,000 12,000 300.0 300.0 4.750 % 1.19 1.19 1.19 14 14 13
closures. Restructuring and related charges primarily Future work environment
National General include the following costs related to these programs: ($ in millions)
Series (3) — 9 —
Expected program charges $ 110
Total 81,000 81,000 $ 2,025 $ 2,025 $ 105 $ 114 $ 108 • Employee - severance and relocation benefits
2021 expenses (131)
(1) Each depository share represents a 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock. • Exit - contract termination penalties and real estate 2022 expenses (8)
costs primarily related to accelerated amortization
(2)Excludes $10 million related to original issuance costs in preferred stock dividends on the Consolidated Statements of Operations Changes in estimated program costs 41
of right-of-use assets and related leasehold
and Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity as a result of the preferred stock redemptions. Remaining program charges $ 12
improvements at facilities to be vacated
(3)On February 2, 2021 and July 15, 2021, the Company redeemed all outstanding shares of National General Preferred Stock Series A,
B and D, and National General Preferred Stock Series C, respectively. The expenses related to these activities are These charges are primarily recorded in the
included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations Allstate Protection segment. Exit costs of this program
The preferred stock ranks senior to the Company’s the full dividends for the latest completed dividend
as restructuring and related charges and totaled $51 reflect real estate costs primarily related to
common stock with respect to the payment of period on the preferred stock have been declared and
million, $170 million and $253 million in 2022, 2021 and accelerated amortization of right-of-use assets and
dividends and liquidation rights. The Company will pay paid or provided for.
2020, respectively. related leasehold improvements at facilities to be
dividends on the preferred stock on a noncumulative
The Company is prohibited from declaring or vacated. The actions related to the future work
basis only when, as and if declared by the Company’s Restructuring expenses in 2022 are primarily due
paying dividends on its Series G preferred stock in environment are substantially complete as of
board of directors (or a duly authorized committee of to the future work environment as the Company
excess of the amount of net proceeds from an issuance December 31, 2022.
the board) and to the extent that the Company has reevaluates its facilities footprint and employee costs
of common stock taking place within 90 days before a
legally available funds to pay dividends. If dividends related to global workforce enablement, including
dividend declaration date if, on that dividend
are declared on the preferred stock, they will be outsourcing various elements of its operations. The
declaration date, either: (1) the risk-based capital ratios
payable quarterly in arrears at an annual fixed rate. Company continues to identify ways to improve
of the largest U.S. property-casualty insurance
Dividends on the preferred stock are not cumulative.
subsidiaries that collectively account for 80% or more
Accordingly, in the event dividends are not declared on Restructuring activity during the period
of the net written premiums of U.S. property-casualty
the preferred stock for payment on any dividend Employee
payment date, then those dividends will cease to be insurance business on a weighted average basis were ($ in millions) costs Exit costs Total liability
less than 175% of their company action level risk-based
payable. If the Company has not declared a dividend Restructuring liability as of December 31, 2021 $ 14 $ 7 $ 21
capital as of the end of the most recent year; or
before the dividend payment date for any dividend Expense incurred 31 29 60
(2) consolidated net income for the four-quarter period
period, the Company has no obligation to pay Adjustments to liability (9) — (9)
ending on the preliminary quarter end test date (the
dividends for that dividend period, whether or not Payments and non-cash charges (9) (29) (38)
quarter that is two quarters prior to the most recently
dividends are declared for any future dividend period.
completed quarter) is zero or negative and Restructuring liability as of December 31, 2022 $ 27 $ 7 $ 34
No dividends may be paid or declared on the
consolidated shareholders’ equity (excluding AOCI, and
Company’s common stock and no shares of the
subject to certain other adjustments relating to As of December 31, 2022, the cumulative amount incurred to date for active programs related to employee
Company’s common stock may be repurchased unless
changes in U.S. GAAP) as of each of the preliminary severance, relocation benefits and exit expenses totaled $29 million for employee costs and $146 million for exit costs.
264 2022 Annual Report 265 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 15 Commitments, Guarantees and Contingent Liabilities insurers to recover assessments through a premium insure. All insurers licensed to write property insurance
surcharge or other mechanism. The CEA’s projected in North Carolina are members of the NCJUA.
aggregate claim paying capacity is $19.10 billion as of Premiums, losses and expenses of the NCJUA are
Shared markets and state facility assessments amount that can be recovered through regular
September 30, 2022 and if an event were to result in shared by the member companies in proportion to
assessments, LA Citizens may fund the remaining
The Company is required to participate in assigned claims greater than its capacity, affected policyholders their respective North Carolina property insurance
deficit by issuing revenue assessment bonds in the
risk plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting may be paid a prorated portion of their covered losses, writings. Member companies participate in plan deficits
capital markets. LA Citizens then declares emergency
associations in various states that provide insurance paid on an installment basis, or no payments may be or surpluses based on their participation ratios, which
assessments each year to provide debt service on the
coverage to individuals or entities that otherwise are made if the claim paying capacity of the CEA is are determined annually. The Company had a $5
bonds until they are retired. Companies writing
unable to purchase such coverage from private insufficient. million receivable from the NCJUA at December 31,
assessable lines must surcharge their policyholders
insurers. 2022 representing its participation in the NCJUA’s
emergency assessments in the percentage established All future assessments on participating CEA
surplus of $18 million for all open years.
The Company routinely reviews its exposure to annually by LA Citizens and must remit amounts insurers are based on their CEA insurance market
assessments from these plans, facilities and collected to the bond trustee on a quarterly basis. share as of December 31 of the preceding year. As of North Carolina Insurance Underwriting Association
government programs. Underwriting results related to Emergency assessments to pay off bonds issued in December 31, 2022, the Company’s market share was The North Carolina Insurance Underwriting Association
these arrangements, which tend to be adverse, have 2007 for the hurricanes of 2005 will continue until 8.3%. The Company does not expect its market share (“NCIUA”) provides property insurance, including
been immaterial to the Company’s results of 2025. to materially change. At this level, the Company’s windstorm and hail coverage, for properties located in
operations in the last three years. Because of the maximum possible CEA assessment was $138 million the state’s beach and coastal areas that private
Facilities such as FL Citizens and LA Citizens are
Company’s participation, it may be exposed to losses during 2022. These amounts are re-evaluated by the insurers are not otherwise willing to insure. All insurers
generally designed so that the ultimate cost is borne
that surpass the capitalization of these facilities or board of directors of the CEA on an annual basis. licensed to write residential and commercial property
by policyholders; however, the exposure to
assessments from these facilities. Accordingly, assessments from the CEA for a particular insurance in North Carolina are members of the NCIUA.
assessments from these facilities and the availability of
quarter or annual period may be material to the results Members are assessed in proportion to their North
Florida Citizens Castle Key is subject to recoupments or premium rate increases may not offset
of operations and cash flows, but not the financial Carolina residential and commercial property insurance
assessments from Citizens Property Insurance each other in the Company’s financial statements.
position of the Company. Management believes the writings, which is determined annually and varies by
Corporation in the state of Florida (“FL Citizens”), which Moreover, even if they do offset each other, they may
Company’s exposure to earthquake losses in California coverage, for plan deficits. As of December 31, 2022,
was initially created by the state of Florida to provide not offset each other in financial statements for the
has been significantly reduced as a result of its the NCIUA had a surplus of $853 million. No member
insurance to property owners unable to obtain same fiscal period due to the ultimate timing of the
participation in the CEA. company is entitled to the distribution of any portion of
coverage in the private insurance market. FL Citizens, assessments and recoupments or premium rate
the NCIUA’s surplus. The Company does not recognize
at the discretion and direction of its Board of increases, as well as the possibility of policies not being Texas Windstorm Insurance Association The
any interest related to this surplus. Legislation in 2009
Governors, can levy a regular assessment on renewed in subsequent years. Company participates as a member of the Texas
capped insurers’ assessments for losses incurred in
assessable insurers and assessable insureds for a Windstorm Insurance Association (“TWIA”), which
California Earthquake Authority Exposure to any calendar year at $1.00 billion. Subsequent to an
deficit in any calendar year up to a maximum of the provides wind and hail property coverage to coastal
certain potential losses from earthquakes in California industry assessment of $1.00 billion, if the plan
greater of: 2% of the projected deficit or 2% of the risks unable to procure coverage in the voluntary
is limited by the Company’s participation in the continues to require funding, it may authorize insurers
aggregate statewide direct written premium for the market. Wind and hail coverage is written on a TWIA-
California Earthquake Authority (“CEA”), which provides to assess a 10% catastrophe recovery charge on each
prior calendar year. The base of assessable insurers issued policy. TWIA follows a funding structure first
insurance for California earthquake losses. The CEA is a property insurance policy statewide to be remitted to
includes all property and casualty premiums in the utilizing currently available funds set aside from
privately-financed, publicly-managed state agency the plan.
state, except workers’ compensation, medical current and prior years. Under the current law, to the
created to provide insurance coverage for earthquake
malpractice, accident and health insurance and policies extent losses exceed premiums received from Other programs The Company is also subject to
damage. Insurers selling homeowners insurance in
written under the NFIP. An insurer may recoup a policyholders, TWIA utilizes a combination of assessments by the NCRF and the FHCF, which are
California are required to offer earthquake insurance to
regular assessment through a surcharge to reinsurance, TWIA issued securities, as well as member described in Note 11.
their customers either through their company or by
policyholders. In order to recoup this assessment, an and policyholder assessments to fund loss payments.
participation in the CEA. The Company’s homeowners Guaranty funds
insurer must file for a policy surcharge with the Florida
policies continue to include coverages for losses Any assessments from TWIA for a particular
Office of Insurance Regulation at least fifteen days caused by explosions, theft, glass breakage and fires quarter or annual period may be material to the results Under state insurance guaranty fund laws, insurers
prior to imposing the surcharge on policies. If a deficit following an earthquake, which are not underwritten by of operations and cash flows, but not to the financial doing business in a state can be assessed, up to
remains after the regular assessment, FL Citizens can the CEA. position of the Company. prescribed limits, for certain obligations of insolvent
also levy emergency assessments in the current and insurance companies to policyholders and claimants.
subsequent years. Companies are required to collect As of September 30, 2022, the CEA’s capital Texas Fair Plan Association The Company Amounts assessed to each company are typically
the emergency assessments directly from residential balance was approximately $5.60 billion. Should losses participates as a member of the Texas Fair Plan related to its proportion of business written in each
property policyholders and remit to FL Citizens as arising from an earthquake cause a deficit in the CEA, Association (“FAIR Plan”), which provides residential state. The Company’s policy is to accrue assessments
collected. Currently, the emergency assessment is zero an additional $1.60 billion would be obtained from the property insurance to inland areas designated as when the entity for which the insolvency relates has
for all policies issued or renewed on or after July 1, proceeds of revenue bonds the CEA may issue, an underserved by the Commissioner of Insurance and the met its state of domicile’s statutory definition of
2015. existing $9.30 billion reinsurance layer, $1.00 billion applicant(s) are unable to procure coverage in the insolvency, the amount of the loss is reasonably
from policy surcharge, and finally, if needed, private market. The FAIR Plan issues insurance policies, estimable and the related premium upon which the
Louisiana Citizens Louisiana Citizens Property
assessments on participating insurance companies. like an insurance company, and it also functions as a assessment is based is written. In most states, the
Insurance Corporation (“LA Citizens”) can levy a regular
Participating insurers are required to pay an pooling mechanism that allocates premiums, claims definition is met with a declaration of financial
assessment on participating companies for a deficit in
assessment, currently estimated not to exceed $1.70 and expenses back to the insurance industry. Insurers insolvency by a court of competent jurisdiction. In
any calendar year up to a maximum of the greater of
billion, if the capital of the CEA falls below $350 million. are permitted to recover the assessment through certain states there must also be a final order of
10% of the calendar year deficit or 10% of Louisiana
Within the limits previously described, the assessment either a premium surcharge applied to existing liquidation. Since most states allow a credit against
direct property premiums industry-wide for the prior
could be intended to restore the CEA’s capital to a customers over a three-year period or increased rates, premium or other state related taxes for assessments,
calendar year. If the plan year deficit exceeds the
level of $350 million. There is no provision that allows but the ability to fully recover the assessment may be an asset is recorded based on paid and accrued
impacted by market conditions or other factors. assessments for the amount the Company expects to
recover on the respective state’s tax return and is
North Carolina Joint Underwriters Association The
realized over the period allowed by each state. As of
North Carolina Joint Underwriters Association
December 31, 2022 and 2021, the liability balance
(“NCJUA”) was created to provide property insurance
included in other liabilities and accrued expenses was
for properties (other than the state’s beach and coastal
$29 million and $17 million, respectively. The related
areas) that private insurers are not otherwise willing to
266 2022 Annual Report 267 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 15 Commitments, Guarantees and Contingent Liabilities insurers to recover assessments through a premium insure. All insurers licensed to write property insurance
surcharge or other mechanism. The CEA’s projected in North Carolina are members of the NCJUA.
aggregate claim paying capacity is $19.10 billion as of Premiums, losses and expenses of the NCJUA are
Shared markets and state facility assessments amount that can be recovered through regular
September 30, 2022 and if an event were to result in shared by the member companies in proportion to
assessments, LA Citizens may fund the remaining
The Company is required to participate in assigned claims greater than its capacity, affected policyholders their respective North Carolina property insurance
deficit by issuing revenue assessment bonds in the
risk plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting may be paid a prorated portion of their covered losses, writings. Member companies participate in plan deficits
capital markets. LA Citizens then declares emergency
associations in various states that provide insurance paid on an installment basis, or no payments may be or surpluses based on their participation ratios, which
assessments each year to provide debt service on the
coverage to individuals or entities that otherwise are made if the claim paying capacity of the CEA is are determined annually. The Company had a $5
bonds until they are retired. Companies writing
unable to purchase such coverage from private insufficient. million receivable from the NCJUA at December 31,
assessable lines must surcharge their policyholders
insurers. 2022 representing its participation in the NCJUA’s
emergency assessments in the percentage established All future assessments on participating CEA
surplus of $18 million for all open years.
The Company routinely reviews its exposure to annually by LA Citizens and must remit amounts insurers are based on their CEA insurance market
assessments from these plans, facilities and collected to the bond trustee on a quarterly basis. share as of December 31 of the preceding year. As of North Carolina Insurance Underwriting Association
government programs. Underwriting results related to Emergency assessments to pay off bonds issued in December 31, 2022, the Company’s market share was The North Carolina Insurance Underwriting Association
these arrangements, which tend to be adverse, have 2007 for the hurricanes of 2005 will continue until 8.3%. The Company does not expect its market share (“NCIUA”) provides property insurance, including
been immaterial to the Company’s results of 2025. to materially change. At this level, the Company’s windstorm and hail coverage, for properties located in
operations in the last three years. Because of the maximum possible CEA assessment was $138 million the state’s beach and coastal areas that private
Facilities such as FL Citizens and LA Citizens are
Company’s participation, it may be exposed to losses during 2022. These amounts are re-evaluated by the insurers are not otherwise willing to insure. All insurers
generally designed so that the ultimate cost is borne
that surpass the capitalization of these facilities or board of directors of the CEA on an annual basis. licensed to write residential and commercial property
by policyholders; however, the exposure to
assessments from these facilities. Accordingly, assessments from the CEA for a particular insurance in North Carolina are members of the NCIUA.
assessments from these facilities and the availability of
quarter or annual period may be material to the results Members are assessed in proportion to their North
Florida Citizens Castle Key is subject to recoupments or premium rate increases may not offset
of operations and cash flows, but not the financial Carolina residential and commercial property insurance
assessments from Citizens Property Insurance each other in the Company’s financial statements.
position of the Company. Management believes the writings, which is determined annually and varies by
Corporation in the state of Florida (“FL Citizens”), which Moreover, even if they do offset each other, they may
Company’s exposure to earthquake losses in California coverage, for plan deficits. As of December 31, 2022,
was initially created by the state of Florida to provide not offset each other in financial statements for the
has been significantly reduced as a result of its the NCIUA had a surplus of $853 million. No member
insurance to property owners unable to obtain same fiscal period due to the ultimate timing of the
participation in the CEA. company is entitled to the distribution of any portion of
coverage in the private insurance market. FL Citizens, assessments and recoupments or premium rate
the NCIUA’s surplus. The Company does not recognize
at the discretion and direction of its Board of increases, as well as the possibility of policies not being Texas Windstorm Insurance Association The
any interest related to this surplus. Legislation in 2009
Governors, can levy a regular assessment on renewed in subsequent years. Company participates as a member of the Texas
capped insurers’ assessments for losses incurred in
assessable insurers and assessable insureds for a Windstorm Insurance Association (“TWIA”), which
California Earthquake Authority Exposure to any calendar year at $1.00 billion. Subsequent to an
deficit in any calendar year up to a maximum of the provides wind and hail property coverage to coastal
certain potential losses from earthquakes in California industry assessment of $1.00 billion, if the plan
greater of: 2% of the projected deficit or 2% of the risks unable to procure coverage in the voluntary
is limited by the Company’s participation in the continues to require funding, it may authorize insurers
aggregate statewide direct written premium for the market. Wind and hail coverage is written on a TWIA-
California Earthquake Authority (“CEA”), which provides to assess a 10% catastrophe recovery charge on each
prior calendar year. The base of assessable insurers issued policy. TWIA follows a funding structure first
insurance for California earthquake losses. The CEA is a property insurance policy statewide to be remitted to
includes all property and casualty premiums in the utilizing currently available funds set aside from
privately-financed, publicly-managed state agency the plan.
state, except workers’ compensation, medical current and prior years. Under the current law, to the
created to provide insurance coverage for earthquake
malpractice, accident and health insurance and policies extent losses exceed premiums received from Other programs The Company is also subject to
damage. Insurers selling homeowners insurance in
written under the NFIP. An insurer may recoup a policyholders, TWIA utilizes a combination of assessments by the NCRF and the FHCF, which are
California are required to offer earthquake insurance to
regular assessment through a surcharge to reinsurance, TWIA issued securities, as well as member described in Note 11.
their customers either through their company or by
policyholders. In order to recoup this assessment, an and policyholder assessments to fund loss payments.
participation in the CEA. The Company’s homeowners Guaranty funds
insurer must file for a policy surcharge with the Florida
policies continue to include coverages for losses Any assessments from TWIA for a particular
Office of Insurance Regulation at least fifteen days caused by explosions, theft, glass breakage and fires quarter or annual period may be material to the results Under state insurance guaranty fund laws, insurers
prior to imposing the surcharge on policies. If a deficit following an earthquake, which are not underwritten by of operations and cash flows, but not to the financial doing business in a state can be assessed, up to
remains after the regular assessment, FL Citizens can the CEA. position of the Company. prescribed limits, for certain obligations of insolvent
also levy emergency assessments in the current and insurance companies to policyholders and claimants.
subsequent years. Companies are required to collect As of September 30, 2022, the CEA’s capital Texas Fair Plan Association The Company Amounts assessed to each company are typically
the emergency assessments directly from residential balance was approximately $5.60 billion. Should losses participates as a member of the Texas Fair Plan related to its proportion of business written in each
property policyholders and remit to FL Citizens as arising from an earthquake cause a deficit in the CEA, Association (“FAIR Plan”), which provides residential state. The Company’s policy is to accrue assessments
collected. Currently, the emergency assessment is zero an additional $1.60 billion would be obtained from the property insurance to inland areas designated as when the entity for which the insolvency relates has
for all policies issued or renewed on or after July 1, proceeds of revenue bonds the CEA may issue, an underserved by the Commissioner of Insurance and the met its state of domicile’s statutory definition of
2015. existing $9.30 billion reinsurance layer, $1.00 billion applicant(s) are unable to procure coverage in the insolvency, the amount of the loss is reasonably
from policy surcharge, and finally, if needed, private market. The FAIR Plan issues insurance policies, estimable and the related premium upon which the
Louisiana Citizens Louisiana Citizens Property
assessments on participating insurance companies. like an insurance company, and it also functions as a assessment is based is written. In most states, the
Insurance Corporation (“LA Citizens”) can levy a regular
Participating insurers are required to pay an pooling mechanism that allocates premiums, claims definition is met with a declaration of financial
assessment on participating companies for a deficit in
assessment, currently estimated not to exceed $1.70 and expenses back to the insurance industry. Insurers insolvency by a court of competent jurisdiction. In
any calendar year up to a maximum of the greater of
billion, if the capital of the CEA falls below $350 million. are permitted to recover the assessment through certain states there must also be a final order of
10% of the calendar year deficit or 10% of Louisiana
Within the limits previously described, the assessment either a premium surcharge applied to existing liquidation. Since most states allow a credit against
direct property premiums industry-wide for the prior
could be intended to restore the CEA’s capital to a customers over a three-year period or increased rates, premium or other state related taxes for assessments,
calendar year. If the plan year deficit exceeds the
level of $350 million. There is no provision that allows but the ability to fully recover the assessment may be an asset is recorded based on paid and accrued
impacted by market conditions or other factors. assessments for the amount the Company expects to
recover on the respective state’s tax return and is
North Carolina Joint Underwriters Association The
realized over the period allowed by each state. As of
North Carolina Joint Underwriters Association
December 31, 2022 and 2021, the liability balance
(“NCJUA”) was created to provide property insurance
included in other liabilities and accrued expenses was
for properties (other than the state’s beach and coastal
$29 million and $17 million, respectively. The related
areas) that private insurers are not otherwise willing to
266 2022 Annual Report 267 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
premium tax offsets included in other assets were $6 standards, impose additional regulations regarding The outcome may also be affected by future state or estimate is aggregated and disclosed. Disclosure is not
million and $7 million as of December 31, 2022 and agency and broker compensation, regulate the nature federal legislation, the timing or substance of which required when an estimate of the reasonably possible
2021, respectively. of and amount of investments, impose fines and cannot be predicted. loss or range of loss cannot be made.
penalties for unintended errors or mistakes, impose
Guarantees In the lawsuits, plaintiffs seek a variety of remedies For certain of the matters described below in the
additional regulations regarding cybersecurity and
which may include equitable relief in the form of “Claims related proceedings” and “Other proceedings”
In the normal course of business, the Company privacy, and otherwise expand overall regulation of
injunctive and other remedies and monetary relief in subsections, the Company is able to estimate the
provides standard indemnifications to contractual insurance products and the insurance industry. In
the form of contractual and extra-contractual reasonably possible loss or range of loss above the
counterparties in connection with numerous addition, the Company is subject to laws and
damages. In some cases, the monetary damages amount accrued, if any. In determining whether it is
transactions, including acquisitions and divestitures. regulations administered and enforced by federal
sought may include punitive or treble damages. Often possible to estimate the reasonably possible loss or
The types of indemnifications typically provided agencies, international agencies, and other
specific information about the relief sought, such as range of loss, the Company reviews and evaluates the
include indemnifications for breaches of organizations, including but not limited to the
the amount of damages, is not available because disclosed matters, in conjunction with counsel, in light
representations and warranties, taxes and certain Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), the
plaintiffs have not requested specific relief in their of potentially relevant factual and legal developments.
other liabilities, such as third-party lawsuits. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the U.S. Equal
pleadings. When specific monetary demands are made,
indemnification clauses are often standard contractual Employment Opportunity Commission, and the U.S. These developments may include information
they are often set just below a state court jurisdictional
terms and are entered into in the normal course of Department of Justice. The Company has established learned through the discovery process, rulings on
limit in order to seek the maximum amount available in
business based on an assessment that the risk of loss procedures and policies to facilitate compliance with dispositive motions, settlement discussions,
state court, regardless of the specifics of the case,
would be remote. The terms of the indemnifications laws and regulations, to foster prudent business information obtained from other sources, experience
while still avoiding the risk of removal to federal court.
vary in duration and nature. In many cases, the operations, and to support financial reporting. The from managing these and other matters, and other
In Allstate’s experience, monetary demands in
maximum obligation is not explicitly stated and the Company routinely reviews its practices to validate rulings by courts, arbitrators or others. When the
pleadings bear little relation to the ultimate loss, if any,
contingencies triggering the obligation to indemnify compliance with laws and regulations and with internal Company possesses sufficient appropriate information
to the Company.
have not occurred and are not expected to occur. procedures and policies. As a result of these reviews, to develop an estimate of the reasonably possible loss
Consequently, the maximum amount of the obligation from time to time the Company may decide to modify In connection with regulatory examinations and or range of loss above the amount accrued, if any, that
under such indemnifications is not determinable. some of its procedures and policies. Such proceedings, government authorities may seek various estimate is aggregated and disclosed below. There
Historically, the Company has not made any material modifications, and the reviews that led to them, may forms of relief, including penalties, restitution, and may be other disclosed matters for which a loss is
payments pursuant to these obligations. be accompanied by payments being made and costs changes in business practices. The Company may not probable or reasonably possible, but such an estimate
being incurred. The ultimate changes and eventual be advised of the nature and extent of relief sought is not possible. Disclosure of the estimate of the
Related to the sale of ALNY on October 1, 2021, AIC
effects of these actions on the Company’s business, if until the final stages of the examination or proceeding. reasonably possible loss or range of loss above the
agreed to indemnify Wilton Reassurance Company in
any, are uncertain. amount accrued, if any, for any individual matter would
connection with certain representations, warranties Accrual and disclosure policy The Company
only be considered when there have been sufficient
and covenants of AIC, and certain liabilities specifically Legal and regulatory proceedings and inquiries reviews its lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and other
legal and factual developments such that the
excluded from the transaction, subject to specific legal proceedings on an ongoing basis and follows
The Company and certain subsidiaries are involved Company’s ability to resolve the matter would not be
contractual limitations regarding AIC’s maximum appropriate accounting guidance when making accrual
in a number of lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and other impaired by the disclosure of the individual estimate.
obligation. Management does not believe these and disclosure decisions. The Company establishes
legal proceedings arising out of various aspects of its
indemnifications will have a material effect on results of accruals for such matters at management’s best The Company currently estimates that the
business.
operations, cash flows or financial position of the estimate when the Company assesses that it is aggregate range of reasonably possible loss in excess
Company. Background These matters raise difficult and probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the amount accrued, if any, for the disclosed matters
complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company where such an estimate is possible is zero to $135
Related to the sale of ALIC and Allstate Assurance
many uncertainties and complexities, including the does not establish accruals for such matters when the million, pre-tax. This disclosure is not an indication of
Company on November 1, 2021, AIC and Allstate
underlying facts of each matter; novel legal issues; Company does not believe both that it is probable that expected loss, if any. Under accounting guidance, an
Financial Insurance Holdings Corporation (collectively,
variations between jurisdictions in which matters are a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss event is “reasonably possible” if “the chance of the
the “Sellers”) agreed to indemnify Everlake US Holdings
being litigated, heard, or investigated; changes in can be reasonably estimated. The Company’s future event or events occurring is more than remote
Company in connection with certain representations,
assigned judges; differences or developments in assessment of whether a loss is reasonably possible or but less than likely” and an event is “remote” if “the
warranties and covenants of the Sellers, and certain
applicable laws and judicial interpretations; judges probable is based on its assessment of the ultimate chance of the future event or events occurring is
liabilities specifically excluded from the transaction,
reconsidering prior rulings; the length of time before outcome of the matter following all appeals. The slight.” This estimate is based upon currently available
subject to specific contractual limitations regarding the
many of these matters might be resolved by Company does not include potential recoveries in its information and is subject to significant judgment and
Sellers’ maximum obligation. Management does not
settlement, through litigation, or otherwise; estimates of reasonably possible or probable losses. a variety of assumptions and known and unknown
believe these indemnifications will have a material
adjustments with respect to anticipated trial schedules Legal fees are expensed as incurred. uncertainties. The matters underlying the estimate will
effect on results of operations, cash flows or financial
and other proceedings; developments in similar change from time to time, and actual results may vary
position of the Company. The Company continues to monitor its lawsuits,
actions against other companies; the fact that some of significantly from the current estimate. The estimate
regulatory inquiries, and other legal proceedings for
The aggregate liability balance related to all the lawsuits are putative class actions in which a class does not include matters or losses for which an
further developments that would make the loss
guarantees was not material as of December 31, 2022. has not been certified and in which the purported class estimate is not possible. Therefore, this estimate
contingency both probable and estimable, and
may not be clearly defined; the fact that some of the represents an estimate of possible loss only for certain
Regulation and compliance accordingly accruable, or that could affect the amount
lawsuits involve multi-state class actions in which the matters meeting these criteria. It does not represent
of accruals that have been previously established.
The Company is subject to extensive laws, applicable law(s) for the claims at issue is in dispute the Company’s maximum possible loss exposure.
There may continue to be exposure to loss in excess of
regulations, administrative directives, and regulatory and therefore unclear; and the challenging legal Information is provided below regarding the nature of
any amount accrued. Disclosure of the nature and
actions. From time to time, regulatory authorities or environment faced by corporations and insurance all of the disclosed matters and, where specified, the
amount of an accrual is made when there have been
legislative bodies seek to influence and restrict companies. amount, if any, of plaintiff claims associated with these
sufficient legal and factual developments such that the
premium rates, require premium refunds to loss contingencies.
The outcome of these matters may be affected by Company’s ability to resolve the matter would not be
policyholders, require reinstatement of terminated
decisions, verdicts, and settlements, and the timing of impaired by the disclosure of the amount of accrual. Due to the complexity and scope of the matters
policies, prescribe rules or guidelines on how affiliates
such decisions, verdicts, and settlements, in other disclosed in the “Claims related proceedings” and
compete in the marketplace, restrict the ability of When the Company assesses it is reasonably
individual and class action lawsuits that involve the “Other proceedings” subsections below and the many
insurers to cancel or non-renew policies, require possible or probable that a loss has been incurred, it
Company, other insurers, or other entities and by other uncertainties that exist, the ultimate outcome of these
insurers to continue to write new policies or limit their discloses the matter. When it is possible to estimate
legal, governmental, and regulatory actions that matters cannot be predicted and in the Company’s
ability to write new policies, limit insurers’ ability to the reasonably possible loss or range of loss above the
involve the Company, other insurers, or other entities. judgment, a loss, in excess of amounts accrued, if any,
change coverage terms or to impose underwriting amount accrued, if any, for the matters disclosed, that
268 2022 Annual Report 269 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
premium tax offsets included in other assets were $6 standards, impose additional regulations regarding The outcome may also be affected by future state or estimate is aggregated and disclosed. Disclosure is not
million and $7 million as of December 31, 2022 and agency and broker compensation, regulate the nature federal legislation, the timing or substance of which required when an estimate of the reasonably possible
2021, respectively. of and amount of investments, impose fines and cannot be predicted. loss or range of loss cannot be made.
penalties for unintended errors or mistakes, impose
Guarantees In the lawsuits, plaintiffs seek a variety of remedies For certain of the matters described below in the
additional regulations regarding cybersecurity and
which may include equitable relief in the form of “Claims related proceedings” and “Other proceedings”
In the normal course of business, the Company privacy, and otherwise expand overall regulation of
injunctive and other remedies and monetary relief in subsections, the Company is able to estimate the
provides standard indemnifications to contractual insurance products and the insurance industry. In
the form of contractual and extra-contractual reasonably possible loss or range of loss above the
counterparties in connection with numerous addition, the Company is subject to laws and
damages. In some cases, the monetary damages amount accrued, if any. In determining whether it is
transactions, including acquisitions and divestitures. regulations administered and enforced by federal
sought may include punitive or treble damages. Often possible to estimate the reasonably possible loss or
The types of indemnifications typically provided agencies, international agencies, and other
specific information about the relief sought, such as range of loss, the Company reviews and evaluates the
include indemnifications for breaches of organizations, including but not limited to the
the amount of damages, is not available because disclosed matters, in conjunction with counsel, in light
representations and warranties, taxes and certain Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), the
plaintiffs have not requested specific relief in their of potentially relevant factual and legal developments.
other liabilities, such as third-party lawsuits. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the U.S. Equal
pleadings. When specific monetary demands are made,
indemnification clauses are often standard contractual Employment Opportunity Commission, and the U.S. These developments may include information
they are often set just below a state court jurisdictional
terms and are entered into in the normal course of Department of Justice. The Company has established learned through the discovery process, rulings on
limit in order to seek the maximum amount available in
business based on an assessment that the risk of loss procedures and policies to facilitate compliance with dispositive motions, settlement discussions,
state court, regardless of the specifics of the case,
would be remote. The terms of the indemnifications laws and regulations, to foster prudent business information obtained from other sources, experience
while still avoiding the risk of removal to federal court.
vary in duration and nature. In many cases, the operations, and to support financial reporting. The from managing these and other matters, and other
In Allstate’s experience, monetary demands in
maximum obligation is not explicitly stated and the Company routinely reviews its practices to validate rulings by courts, arbitrators or others. When the
pleadings bear little relation to the ultimate loss, if any,
contingencies triggering the obligation to indemnify compliance with laws and regulations and with internal Company possesses sufficient appropriate information
to the Company.
have not occurred and are not expected to occur. procedures and policies. As a result of these reviews, to develop an estimate of the reasonably possible loss
Consequently, the maximum amount of the obligation from time to time the Company may decide to modify In connection with regulatory examinations and or range of loss above the amount accrued, if any, that
under such indemnifications is not determinable. some of its procedures and policies. Such proceedings, government authorities may seek various estimate is aggregated and disclosed below. There
Historically, the Company has not made any material modifications, and the reviews that led to them, may forms of relief, including penalties, restitution, and may be other disclosed matters for which a loss is
payments pursuant to these obligations. be accompanied by payments being made and costs changes in business practices. The Company may not probable or reasonably possible, but such an estimate
being incurred. The ultimate changes and eventual be advised of the nature and extent of relief sought is not possible. Disclosure of the estimate of the
Related to the sale of ALNY on October 1, 2021, AIC
effects of these actions on the Company’s business, if until the final stages of the examination or proceeding. reasonably possible loss or range of loss above the
agreed to indemnify Wilton Reassurance Company in
any, are uncertain. amount accrued, if any, for any individual matter would
connection with certain representations, warranties Accrual and disclosure policy The Company
only be considered when there have been sufficient
and covenants of AIC, and certain liabilities specifically Legal and regulatory proceedings and inquiries reviews its lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and other
legal and factual developments such that the
excluded from the transaction, subject to specific legal proceedings on an ongoing basis and follows
The Company and certain subsidiaries are involved Company’s ability to resolve the matter would not be
contractual limitations regarding AIC’s maximum appropriate accounting guidance when making accrual
in a number of lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and other impaired by the disclosure of the individual estimate.
obligation. Management does not believe these and disclosure decisions. The Company establishes
legal proceedings arising out of various aspects of its
indemnifications will have a material effect on results of accruals for such matters at management’s best The Company currently estimates that the
business.
operations, cash flows or financial position of the estimate when the Company assesses that it is aggregate range of reasonably possible loss in excess
Company. Background These matters raise difficult and probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the amount accrued, if any, for the disclosed matters
complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company where such an estimate is possible is zero to $135
Related to the sale of ALIC and Allstate Assurance
many uncertainties and complexities, including the does not establish accruals for such matters when the million, pre-tax. This disclosure is not an indication of
Company on November 1, 2021, AIC and Allstate
underlying facts of each matter; novel legal issues; Company does not believe both that it is probable that expected loss, if any. Under accounting guidance, an
Financial Insurance Holdings Corporation (collectively,
variations between jurisdictions in which matters are a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss event is “reasonably possible” if “the chance of the
the “Sellers”) agreed to indemnify Everlake US Holdings
being litigated, heard, or investigated; changes in can be reasonably estimated. The Company’s future event or events occurring is more than remote
Company in connection with certain representations,
assigned judges; differences or developments in assessment of whether a loss is reasonably possible or but less than likely” and an event is “remote” if “the
warranties and covenants of the Sellers, and certain
applicable laws and judicial interpretations; judges probable is based on its assessment of the ultimate chance of the future event or events occurring is
liabilities specifically excluded from the transaction,
reconsidering prior rulings; the length of time before outcome of the matter following all appeals. The slight.” This estimate is based upon currently available
subject to specific contractual limitations regarding the
many of these matters might be resolved by Company does not include potential recoveries in its information and is subject to significant judgment and
Sellers’ maximum obligation. Management does not
settlement, through litigation, or otherwise; estimates of reasonably possible or probable losses. a variety of assumptions and known and unknown
believe these indemnifications will have a material
adjustments with respect to anticipated trial schedules Legal fees are expensed as incurred. uncertainties. The matters underlying the estimate will
effect on results of operations, cash flows or financial
and other proceedings; developments in similar change from time to time, and actual results may vary
position of the Company. The Company continues to monitor its lawsuits,
actions against other companies; the fact that some of significantly from the current estimate. The estimate
regulatory inquiries, and other legal proceedings for
The aggregate liability balance related to all the lawsuits are putative class actions in which a class does not include matters or losses for which an
further developments that would make the loss
guarantees was not material as of December 31, 2022. has not been certified and in which the purported class estimate is not possible. Therefore, this estimate
contingency both probable and estimable, and
may not be clearly defined; the fact that some of the represents an estimate of possible loss only for certain
Regulation and compliance accordingly accruable, or that could affect the amount
lawsuits involve multi-state class actions in which the matters meeting these criteria. It does not represent
of accruals that have been previously established.
The Company is subject to extensive laws, applicable law(s) for the claims at issue is in dispute the Company’s maximum possible loss exposure.
There may continue to be exposure to loss in excess of
regulations, administrative directives, and regulatory and therefore unclear; and the challenging legal Information is provided below regarding the nature of
any amount accrued. Disclosure of the nature and
actions. From time to time, regulatory authorities or environment faced by corporations and insurance all of the disclosed matters and, where specified, the
amount of an accrual is made when there have been
legislative bodies seek to influence and restrict companies. amount, if any, of plaintiff claims associated with these
sufficient legal and factual developments such that the
premium rates, require premium refunds to loss contingencies.
The outcome of these matters may be affected by Company’s ability to resolve the matter would not be
policyholders, require reinstatement of terminated
decisions, verdicts, and settlements, and the timing of impaired by the disclosure of the amount of accrual. Due to the complexity and scope of the matters
policies, prescribe rules or guidelines on how affiliates
such decisions, verdicts, and settlements, in other disclosed in the “Claims related proceedings” and
compete in the marketplace, restrict the ability of When the Company assesses it is reasonably
individual and class action lawsuits that involve the “Other proceedings” subsections below and the many
insurers to cancel or non-renew policies, require possible or probable that a loss has been incurred, it
Company, other insurers, or other entities and by other uncertainties that exist, the ultimate outcome of these
insurers to continue to write new policies or limit their discloses the matter. When it is possible to estimate
legal, governmental, and regulatory actions that matters cannot be predicted and in the Company’s
ability to write new policies, limit insurers’ ability to the reasonably possible loss or range of loss above the
involve the Company, other insurers, or other entities. judgment, a loss, in excess of amounts accrued, if any,
change coverage terms or to impose underwriting amount accrued, if any, for the matters disclosed, that
268 2022 Annual Report 269 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
is not probable. In the event of an unfavorable part of the proposed class-wide settlement, the implemented any such potentially illegal price certified on March 26, 2019, vacated by the U.S. Court
outcome in one or more of these matters, the ultimate plaintiff and defendant in Thaxton v. Allstate Indemnity optimization in its private passenger auto insurance of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit on July 16, 2020 and
liability may be in excess of amounts currently accrued, Company were added to the Hester complaint). A rates and/or class plans; and (3) how such potentially remanded for further consideration by the district
if any, and may be material to the Company’s operating motion for preliminary approval of a class-wide illegal price optimization impacted Allstate’s private court. On December 21, 2020, the district court again
results or cash flows for a particular quarterly or annual settlement is pending in Mitchell, et al. v. Allstate passenger auto insurance policyholders. Fact discovery granted plaintiffs’ motion for class certification and
period. However, based on information currently known Vehicle and Property Insurance Company, et al. (S.D. has been completed in the investigatory hearing. The certified a class consisting of all persons who
to it, management believes that the ultimate outcome Ala. filed August 2021). hearing is scheduled for May 22, 2023. purchased Allstate common stock between October
of all matters described below, as they are resolved 29, 2014 and August 3, 2015. Defendants’ petition for
The Company is defending putative class actions In re The Allstate Corp. Securities Litigation is a
over time, is not likely to have a material effect on the permission to appeal this ruling was denied on January
pending in multiple states alleging that the Company certified class action filed on November 11, 2016 in the
financial position of the Company. 28, 2021. Following the close of discovery defendants
underpays total loss vehicle physical damage claims on United States District Court for the Northern District of
moved for summary judgment on March 23, 2022. On
Claims related proceedings The Company is auto policies. The allegedly systematic underpayments Illinois against the Company and two of its officers
July 26, 2022 the court entered its order granting
managing various disputes in Florida that raise result from one or more of the following theories: (a) asserting claims under the federal securities laws.
summary judgment in part (as to plaintiffs’ claims
challenges to the Company’s practices, processes, and the third party valuation tool used by the Company as Plaintiffs allege that they purchased Allstate common
relating to certain statements made in October 2014)
procedures relating to claims for personal injury part of a comprehensive adjustment process is stock during the class period and suffered damages as
and denying it as to the remainder of plaintiffs’ claims.
protection benefits under Florida auto policies. Medical allegedly flawed, biased, or contrary to applicable law; the result of the conduct alleged. Plaintiffs seek an
On January 10, 2023, the parties filed a joint pre-trial
providers continue to pursue litigation under various (b) the Company allegedly does not pay sales tax, title unspecified amount of damages, costs, attorney’s fees,
order. A pre-trial conference is scheduled for March 2,
theories that challenge the amounts that the Company fees, registration fees, and/or other specified fees that and other relief as the court deems appropriate.
2023.
pays under the personal injury protection coverage, are allegedly mandatory under policy language or state Plaintiffs allege that the Company and certain senior
seeking additional benefit payments, as well as legal authority; or (c) after paying for the value of the officers made allegedly material misstatements or The Company is continuing to defend two putative
applicable interest, penalties and fees. There is a loss vehicle, then the Company allegedly is not entitled omissions concerning claim frequency statistics and class actions in California federal court, Holland Hewitt
pending lawsuit, Revival Chiropractic v. Allstate to retain the residual salvage value, and the Company the reasons for a claim frequency increase for Allstate v. Allstate Life Insurance Company (E.D. Cal., filed May
Insurance Company, et al. (M.D. Fla., filed January 2019; allegedly must pay salvage value to the owner (or if the brand auto insurance between October 2014 and 2020) and Farley v. Lincoln Benefit Life Company (E.D.
appeal pending, 11th Circuit Court of Appeals), where loss vehicle is retained by the owner, then the August 3, 2015. Cal., filed Dec. 2020), following the sale of ALIC. No
the federal district court denied class certification and Company allegedly may not apply any offset for the classes have been certified in these matters. In these
Plaintiffs further allege that a senior officer
plaintiff’s request to file a renewed motion for class salvage value). cases, plaintiffs generally allege that the defendants
certification. In Revival, on June 2, 2022, the 11th Circuit engaged in stock option exercises during that time failed to comply with certain California statutes which
The following cases are currently pending against allegedly while in possession of material nonpublic
certified to the Florida Supreme Court Allstate’s appeal address contractual grace periods and lapse notice
the Company: Olberg v. Allstate Insurance Company, information about Allstate brand auto insurance claim
of the federal district court’s interpretation of the state requirements for certain life insurance policies.
personal injury protection statute. The 11th Circuit is Allstate Fire and Casualty Insurance Company, and CCC frequency. The Company, its chairman, president and Plaintiffs claim that these statutes apply to life
Information Services, Inc. (W.D. Wash., filed April 2018); chief executive officer, and its former president are the
holding determination on plaintiff’s class certification insurance policies that existed before the statutes’
Kronenberg v. Allstate Insurance Company and Allstate named defendants. After the court denied their motion
appeal pending the outcome of the Florida Supreme effective date. The plaintiffs seek damages and
Fire and Casualty Insurance Company (E.D.N.Y., filed to dismiss on February 27, 2018, defendants answered
Court certification. The oral argument before the injunctive relief. Similar litigation is pending against
December 2018); Durgin v. Allstate Property and the complaint, denying plaintiffs’ allegations that there
Florida Supreme Court is scheduled for March 8, 2023. other insurance carriers. In August 2021, the California
Casualty Insurance Company (W.D. La., filed June 2019); was any misstatement or omission or other
The Company is also defending litigation involving Supreme Court in McHugh v. Protective Life, a matter
Williams v. Esurance Property and Casualty Insurance misconduct. On June 22, 2018, plaintiffs filed their
individual plaintiffs. involving another insurer, determined that the
Company (C.D. Cal., filed September 2020); Cotton v. motion for class certification. The court allowed the
statutory notice requirements apply to life insurance
The Company is defending putative class actions Allstate Fire and Casualty Insurance Company (Cir. Ct. lead plaintiffs to amend their complaint to add the City
policies issued before the statutes’ effective date. The
in various courts that raise challenges to the of Cook Co. Ill., Chancery Div., filed October 2020); of Providence Employee Retirement System as a
Company asserts various defenses to plaintiffs’ claims
Company’s depreciation practices in homeowner Romaniak v. Esurance Property and Casualty Insurance proposed class representative and on September 12,
and to class certification.
property claims. In these lawsuits, plaintiffs generally Company (N.D. Ohio, filed December 2020); Bass v. 2018, the amended complaint was filed. A class was
allege that, when calculating actual cash value, the Imperial Fire and Casualty Insurance Company (W.D.
costs of “non-materials” such as labor, general La., filed February 2022); Cummings v. Allstate Property Note 16 Income Taxes
contractor’s overhead and profit, and sales tax should and Casualty Insurance Company (M.D. La., filed April
not be subject to depreciation. The Company is 2022); Slaughter v. Esurance Property and Casualty The Company and its eligible domestic subsidiaries minimum tax (“CAMT”) on certain large corporations
currently defending the following lawsuits on this Insurance Company (Cir. Ct. of Cook Co, Ill., Chancery file a U.S. consolidated federal income tax return. The and an excise tax of 1% on stock repurchases by
issue: Clark v. Allstate Vehicle and Property Insurance Div., filed September 2022); Kanak v. Allstate Fire and Company also files tax returns in various states and publicly traded U.S. corporations, both effective after
Company (Circuit Court of Independence Co., Ark., filed Casualty Insurance Company (Cir. Ct. of Cook Co., Ill., foreign jurisdictions. Tax liabilities and benefits realized December 31, 2022. The excise tax on common stock
February 2016); Sims, et al. v. Allstate Fire and Casualty Chancery Div., filed September 2022). by the consolidated group are allocated as generated repurchases will be classified as an additional cost of
Insurance Company, et al. (W.D. Tex. filed June 2022); by the respective entities. the stock acquired included in treasury stock in
None of the courts in any of the pending matters
Thompson, et al. v. Allstate Insurance Company (Circuit shareholders' equity. The Company has determined
has ruled on class certification. Deferred income taxes result from temporary
Court of Cole Co., Mo. filed June 2022); and Hill v. that it is considered an “applicable corporation” under
differences between the tax basis of assets and
Allstate Vehicle and Property Insurance Company Other proceedings The Company is defending against the rules of CAMT, and as such, it is expected to
liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial
(Circuit Court of Cole Co., Mo. filed October 2022). No an investigatory hearing before the California perform the CAMT computation starting January 1,
statements that will result in taxable or deductible
classes have been certified in any of these matters. A Insurance Commissioner concerning the private 2023; however, a reasonable estimate cannot be made
amounts in future years. Deferred tax assets and
settlement-in-principle has been reached in the passenger automobile insurance rating practices of as of the filing date.
liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates
following cases: Perry v. Allstate Indemnity Company, Allstate Insurance Company and Allstate Indemnity
expected to apply to taxable income in years in which Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security
et al. (N.D. Ohio filed May 2016); Lado v. Allstate Vehicle Company in California. The investigatory hearing is
those temporary differences are expected to be Act The Company qualified and claimed certain
and Property Insurance Company (S.D. Ohio filed March captioned: In the Matter of the Rating Practices of
recovered or settled. Deferred tax assets and liabilities employer payroll tax credits that are allowed under the
2020); Maniaci v. Allstate Insurance Company (N.D. Allstate Insurance Company and Allstate Indemnity
are adjusted through income tax expense as changes Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act. For
Ohio filed March 2020); and Ferguson-Luke, et al. v. Company. Pursuant to the Notice of Hearing issued by
in tax laws or rates are enacted. the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, the
Allstate Property and Casualty Insurance Company the California Insurance Commissioner, the California
Company recorded $3 million and $21 million of
(N.D. Ohio filed April 2020). The court granted Insurance Commissioner is investigating: (1) whether Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 The Inflation
refundable employee retention tax credits reported in
preliminary approval of a class-wide settlement in Allstate has potentially violated California insurance Reduction Act of 2022 (“Act”), which contains several
property and casualty claims and claims expense in the
Hester, et al. v. Allstate Vehicle and Property Insurance law by using illegal price optimization; (2) how Allstate tax-related provisions, was signed into law in August
Consolidated Statements of Operations, respectively.
Company, et al. (St. Clair Co., Ill. filed June 2020) (as 2022. The Act creates a 15% corporate alternative
270 2022 Annual Report 271 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
is not probable. In the event of an unfavorable part of the proposed class-wide settlement, the implemented any such potentially illegal price certified on March 26, 2019, vacated by the U.S. Court
outcome in one or more of these matters, the ultimate plaintiff and defendant in Thaxton v. Allstate Indemnity optimization in its private passenger auto insurance of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit on July 16, 2020 and
liability may be in excess of amounts currently accrued, Company were added to the Hester complaint). A rates and/or class plans; and (3) how such potentially remanded for further consideration by the district
if any, and may be material to the Company’s operating motion for preliminary approval of a class-wide illegal price optimization impacted Allstate’s private court. On December 21, 2020, the district court again
results or cash flows for a particular quarterly or annual settlement is pending in Mitchell, et al. v. Allstate passenger auto insurance policyholders. Fact discovery granted plaintiffs’ motion for class certification and
period. However, based on information currently known Vehicle and Property Insurance Company, et al. (S.D. has been completed in the investigatory hearing. The certified a class consisting of all persons who
to it, management believes that the ultimate outcome Ala. filed August 2021). hearing is scheduled for May 22, 2023. purchased Allstate common stock between October
of all matters described below, as they are resolved 29, 2014 and August 3, 2015. Defendants’ petition for
The Company is defending putative class actions In re The Allstate Corp. Securities Litigation is a
over time, is not likely to have a material effect on the permission to appeal this ruling was denied on January
pending in multiple states alleging that the Company certified class action filed on November 11, 2016 in the
financial position of the Company. 28, 2021. Following the close of discovery defendants
underpays total loss vehicle physical damage claims on United States District Court for the Northern District of
moved for summary judgment on March 23, 2022. On
Claims related proceedings The Company is auto policies. The allegedly systematic underpayments Illinois against the Company and two of its officers
July 26, 2022 the court entered its order granting
managing various disputes in Florida that raise result from one or more of the following theories: (a) asserting claims under the federal securities laws.
summary judgment in part (as to plaintiffs’ claims
challenges to the Company’s practices, processes, and the third party valuation tool used by the Company as Plaintiffs allege that they purchased Allstate common
relating to certain statements made in October 2014)
procedures relating to claims for personal injury part of a comprehensive adjustment process is stock during the class period and suffered damages as
and denying it as to the remainder of plaintiffs’ claims.
protection benefits under Florida auto policies. Medical allegedly flawed, biased, or contrary to applicable law; the result of the conduct alleged. Plaintiffs seek an
On January 10, 2023, the parties filed a joint pre-trial
providers continue to pursue litigation under various (b) the Company allegedly does not pay sales tax, title unspecified amount of damages, costs, attorney’s fees,
order. A pre-trial conference is scheduled for March 2,
theories that challenge the amounts that the Company fees, registration fees, and/or other specified fees that and other relief as the court deems appropriate.
2023.
pays under the personal injury protection coverage, are allegedly mandatory under policy language or state Plaintiffs allege that the Company and certain senior
seeking additional benefit payments, as well as legal authority; or (c) after paying for the value of the officers made allegedly material misstatements or The Company is continuing to defend two putative
applicable interest, penalties and fees. There is a loss vehicle, then the Company allegedly is not entitled omissions concerning claim frequency statistics and class actions in California federal court, Holland Hewitt
pending lawsuit, Revival Chiropractic v. Allstate to retain the residual salvage value, and the Company the reasons for a claim frequency increase for Allstate v. Allstate Life Insurance Company (E.D. Cal., filed May
Insurance Company, et al. (M.D. Fla., filed January 2019; allegedly must pay salvage value to the owner (or if the brand auto insurance between October 2014 and 2020) and Farley v. Lincoln Benefit Life Company (E.D.
appeal pending, 11th Circuit Court of Appeals), where loss vehicle is retained by the owner, then the August 3, 2015. Cal., filed Dec. 2020), following the sale of ALIC. No
the federal district court denied class certification and Company allegedly may not apply any offset for the classes have been certified in these matters. In these
Plaintiffs further allege that a senior officer
plaintiff’s request to file a renewed motion for class salvage value). cases, plaintiffs generally allege that the defendants
certification. In Revival, on June 2, 2022, the 11th Circuit engaged in stock option exercises during that time failed to comply with certain California statutes which
The following cases are currently pending against allegedly while in possession of material nonpublic
certified to the Florida Supreme Court Allstate’s appeal address contractual grace periods and lapse notice
the Company: Olberg v. Allstate Insurance Company, information about Allstate brand auto insurance claim
of the federal district court’s interpretation of the state requirements for certain life insurance policies.
personal injury protection statute. The 11th Circuit is Allstate Fire and Casualty Insurance Company, and CCC frequency. The Company, its chairman, president and Plaintiffs claim that these statutes apply to life
Information Services, Inc. (W.D. Wash., filed April 2018); chief executive officer, and its former president are the
holding determination on plaintiff’s class certification insurance policies that existed before the statutes’
Kronenberg v. Allstate Insurance Company and Allstate named defendants. After the court denied their motion
appeal pending the outcome of the Florida Supreme effective date. The plaintiffs seek damages and
Fire and Casualty Insurance Company (E.D.N.Y., filed to dismiss on February 27, 2018, defendants answered
Court certification. The oral argument before the injunctive relief. Similar litigation is pending against
December 2018); Durgin v. Allstate Property and the complaint, denying plaintiffs’ allegations that there
Florida Supreme Court is scheduled for March 8, 2023. other insurance carriers. In August 2021, the California
Casualty Insurance Company (W.D. La., filed June 2019); was any misstatement or omission or other
The Company is also defending litigation involving Supreme Court in McHugh v. Protective Life, a matter
Williams v. Esurance Property and Casualty Insurance misconduct. On June 22, 2018, plaintiffs filed their
individual plaintiffs. involving another insurer, determined that the
Company (C.D. Cal., filed September 2020); Cotton v. motion for class certification. The court allowed the
statutory notice requirements apply to life insurance
The Company is defending putative class actions Allstate Fire and Casualty Insurance Company (Cir. Ct. lead plaintiffs to amend their complaint to add the City
policies issued before the statutes’ effective date. The
in various courts that raise challenges to the of Cook Co. Ill., Chancery Div., filed October 2020); of Providence Employee Retirement System as a
Company asserts various defenses to plaintiffs’ claims
Company’s depreciation practices in homeowner Romaniak v. Esurance Property and Casualty Insurance proposed class representative and on September 12,
and to class certification.
property claims. In these lawsuits, plaintiffs generally Company (N.D. Ohio, filed December 2020); Bass v. 2018, the amended complaint was filed. A class was
allege that, when calculating actual cash value, the Imperial Fire and Casualty Insurance Company (W.D.
costs of “non-materials” such as labor, general La., filed February 2022); Cummings v. Allstate Property Note 16 Income Taxes
contractor’s overhead and profit, and sales tax should and Casualty Insurance Company (M.D. La., filed April
not be subject to depreciation. The Company is 2022); Slaughter v. Esurance Property and Casualty The Company and its eligible domestic subsidiaries minimum tax (“CAMT”) on certain large corporations
currently defending the following lawsuits on this Insurance Company (Cir. Ct. of Cook Co, Ill., Chancery file a U.S. consolidated federal income tax return. The and an excise tax of 1% on stock repurchases by
issue: Clark v. Allstate Vehicle and Property Insurance Div., filed September 2022); Kanak v. Allstate Fire and Company also files tax returns in various states and publicly traded U.S. corporations, both effective after
Company (Circuit Court of Independence Co., Ark., filed Casualty Insurance Company (Cir. Ct. of Cook Co., Ill., foreign jurisdictions. Tax liabilities and benefits realized December 31, 2022. The excise tax on common stock
February 2016); Sims, et al. v. Allstate Fire and Casualty Chancery Div., filed September 2022). by the consolidated group are allocated as generated repurchases will be classified as an additional cost of
Insurance Company, et al. (W.D. Tex. filed June 2022); by the respective entities. the stock acquired included in treasury stock in
None of the courts in any of the pending matters
Thompson, et al. v. Allstate Insurance Company (Circuit shareholders' equity. The Company has determined
has ruled on class certification. Deferred income taxes result from temporary
Court of Cole Co., Mo. filed June 2022); and Hill v. that it is considered an “applicable corporation” under
differences between the tax basis of assets and
Allstate Vehicle and Property Insurance Company Other proceedings The Company is defending against the rules of CAMT, and as such, it is expected to
liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial
(Circuit Court of Cole Co., Mo. filed October 2022). No an investigatory hearing before the California perform the CAMT computation starting January 1,
statements that will result in taxable or deductible
classes have been certified in any of these matters. A Insurance Commissioner concerning the private 2023; however, a reasonable estimate cannot be made
amounts in future years. Deferred tax assets and
settlement-in-principle has been reached in the passenger automobile insurance rating practices of as of the filing date.
liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates
following cases: Perry v. Allstate Indemnity Company, Allstate Insurance Company and Allstate Indemnity
expected to apply to taxable income in years in which Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security
et al. (N.D. Ohio filed May 2016); Lado v. Allstate Vehicle Company in California. The investigatory hearing is
those temporary differences are expected to be Act The Company qualified and claimed certain
and Property Insurance Company (S.D. Ohio filed March captioned: In the Matter of the Rating Practices of
recovered or settled. Deferred tax assets and liabilities employer payroll tax credits that are allowed under the
2020); Maniaci v. Allstate Insurance Company (N.D. Allstate Insurance Company and Allstate Indemnity
are adjusted through income tax expense as changes Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act. For
Ohio filed March 2020); and Ferguson-Luke, et al. v. Company. Pursuant to the Notice of Hearing issued by
in tax laws or rates are enacted. the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, the
Allstate Property and Casualty Insurance Company the California Insurance Commissioner, the California
Company recorded $3 million and $21 million of
(N.D. Ohio filed April 2020). The court granted Insurance Commissioner is investigating: (1) whether Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 The Inflation
refundable employee retention tax credits reported in
preliminary approval of a class-wide settlement in Allstate has potentially violated California insurance Reduction Act of 2022 (“Act”), which contains several
property and casualty claims and claims expense in the
Hester, et al. v. Allstate Vehicle and Property Insurance law by using illegal price optimization; (2) how Allstate tax-related provisions, was signed into law in August
Consolidated Statements of Operations, respectively.
Company, et al. (St. Clair Co., Ill. filed June 2020) (as 2022. The Act creates a 15% corporate alternative
270 2022 Annual Report 271 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Regulatory tax examinations On January 4, 2021 Unrecognized tax benefits The Company The provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 eliminated the 20-year carryforward period and made it
and October 1, 2021, the Company acquired National recognizes tax positions in the consolidated financial indefinite for federal net operating losses generated in tax years after December 31, 2017. For such amounts generated
General and SafeAuto, respectively. For tax years prior statements only when it is more likely than not that the prior to 2018, the 20-year carryforward period continues to apply.
to the acquisition, National General is subject to position will be sustained on examination by the
Components of the net operating loss carryforwards as of December 31, 2022
separate Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) audits. The relevant taxing authority based on the technical merits
IRS has completed its exam of Allstate’s tax years prior of the position. A position that meets this standard is 20-Year
to 2017 and National General tax years prior to 2015. measured at the largest amount of benefit that will Carryforward Indefinite
Expires in Carryforward
Currently, the Company is under exam for the 2017 and more likely than not be realized on settlement. A
($ in millions) 2025-2037 Period Total
2018 tax years and National General is under exam for liability is established for differences between positions
US Federal $ 221 $ 9 $ 230
the 2015 through 2019 tax years. The Company taken in a tax return and amounts recognized in the
Foreign — 219 219
believes that adequate provision has been made in the consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated Financial Statements for any potential Total $ 221 $ 228 $ 449
adjustments that may result from IRS examinations or
any other tax authorities related to all open tax years. Components of income tax expense
For the years ended December 31,
Reconciliation of the change in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
For the years ended December 31, Current $ (36) $ 841 $ 1,480
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Deferred (458) 448 (107)
Balance – beginning of year $ 17 $ 12 $ 70 Total income tax (benefit) expense $ (494) $ 1,289 $ 1,373
Acquisitions — 5 —
Decrease for settlements — — (58) The Company paid income taxes of $95 million, $1.05 billion and $1.48 billion in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
Balance – end of year $ 17 $ 17 $ 12
The Company had current income tax receivable of $677 million and $370 million as of December 31, 2022 and
2021, respectively.
The Company believes that it is reasonably possible that a portion of the unrecognized tax benefits could decrease
within the next twelve months as a result of the lapse of the applicable statute of limitations.
Reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to the effective income tax rate
Components of the deferred income tax assets and liabilities For the years ended December 31,
As of December 31, ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
($ in millions) 2022 2021 (Loss) income before income taxes $ (1,858) $ 6,448 $ 6,802
Deferred tax assets
Unearned premium reserves $ 815 $ 742 Statutory federal income tax rate on income from
operations (390) 21.0 % 1,354 21.0 % 1,428 21.0 %
Unrealized net capital losses 608 —
State income taxes — — 13 0.2 31 0.4
Discount on loss reserves 228 169
Tax credits (55) 3.0 (42) (0.6) (24) (0.4)
Research & development capitalization 219 —
Tax-exempt income (17) 0.9 (18) (0.3) (23) (0.3)
Accrued compensation 128 151
Share-based payments (22) 1.2 (18) (0.3) (30) (0.4)
Net operating loss carryover 97 88
Other (10) 0.5 — — (9) (0.1)
Other postretirement benefits 15 31
Effective income tax rate on income from
Pension 10 —
operations $ (494) 26.6 % $ 1,289 20.0 % $ 1,373 20.2 %
Other assets 95 90
Total deferred tax assets before valuation allowance 2,215 1,271
Note 17 Statutory Financial Information and Dividend Limitations
Valuation allowance (34) (24)
Total deferred tax assets after valuation allowance 2,181 1,247
Allstate’s domestic property and casualty and life, All states require domiciled insurance companies
Deferred tax liabilities accident and health insurance subsidiaries prepare to prepare statutory-basis financial statements in
DAC (1,013) (924) their statutory-basis financial statements in conformity conformity with the NAIC Accounting Practices and
Investments (431) (666) with accounting practices prescribed or permitted by Procedures Manual, subject to any deviations
Intangible assets (147) (219) the insurance department of the applicable state of prescribed or permitted by the applicable insurance
Unrealized net capital gains — (163) domicile. Prescribed statutory accounting practices commissioner or director. Statutory accounting
Pension — (9) include a variety of publications of the NAIC, as well as practices differ from GAAP primarily since they require
state laws, regulations and general administrative charging policy acquisition costs to expense as
Other liabilities (204) (99)
rules. Permitted statutory accounting practices incurred, establishing life insurance reserves based on
Total deferred tax liabilities (1,795) (2,080)
encompass all accounting practices not so prescribed. different actuarial assumptions, and valuing certain
Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) $ 386 $ (833)
investments and establishing deferred taxes on a
different basis.
As of December 31, 2022, the Company has U.S. federal and foreign net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards, some
of which will expire on various dates from 2025 through 2037 as indicated in the table below. In assessing the
realizability of gross deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or
all of the gross deferred tax assets will not be realized. Management considers the scheduled reversal of deferred tax
liabilities, projected future taxable income and tax planning strategies in making this assessment, as well as limitations
on use in future periods. Accordingly, management believes that it is more likely than not that the benefit from certain
NOL carryforwards from recent acquisitions will not be realized. The Company has a valuation allowance of $34 million
on the deferred tax assets related to these NOL carryforwards.
272 2022 Annual Report 273 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Regulatory tax examinations On January 4, 2021 Unrecognized tax benefits The Company The provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 eliminated the 20-year carryforward period and made it
and October 1, 2021, the Company acquired National recognizes tax positions in the consolidated financial indefinite for federal net operating losses generated in tax years after December 31, 2017. For such amounts generated
General and SafeAuto, respectively. For tax years prior statements only when it is more likely than not that the prior to 2018, the 20-year carryforward period continues to apply.
to the acquisition, National General is subject to position will be sustained on examination by the
Components of the net operating loss carryforwards as of December 31, 2022
separate Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) audits. The relevant taxing authority based on the technical merits
IRS has completed its exam of Allstate’s tax years prior of the position. A position that meets this standard is 20-Year
to 2017 and National General tax years prior to 2015. measured at the largest amount of benefit that will Carryforward Indefinite
Expires in Carryforward
Currently, the Company is under exam for the 2017 and more likely than not be realized on settlement. A
($ in millions) 2025-2037 Period Total
2018 tax years and National General is under exam for liability is established for differences between positions
US Federal $ 221 $ 9 $ 230
the 2015 through 2019 tax years. The Company taken in a tax return and amounts recognized in the
Foreign — 219 219
believes that adequate provision has been made in the consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated Financial Statements for any potential Total $ 221 $ 228 $ 449
adjustments that may result from IRS examinations or
any other tax authorities related to all open tax years. Components of income tax expense
For the years ended December 31,
Reconciliation of the change in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
For the years ended December 31, Current $ (36) $ 841 $ 1,480
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 Deferred (458) 448 (107)
Balance – beginning of year $ 17 $ 12 $ 70 Total income tax (benefit) expense $ (494) $ 1,289 $ 1,373
Acquisitions — 5 —
Decrease for settlements — — (58) The Company paid income taxes of $95 million, $1.05 billion and $1.48 billion in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
Balance – end of year $ 17 $ 17 $ 12
The Company had current income tax receivable of $677 million and $370 million as of December 31, 2022 and
2021, respectively.
The Company believes that it is reasonably possible that a portion of the unrecognized tax benefits could decrease
within the next twelve months as a result of the lapse of the applicable statute of limitations.
Reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to the effective income tax rate
Components of the deferred income tax assets and liabilities For the years ended December 31,
As of December 31, ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
($ in millions) 2022 2021 (Loss) income before income taxes $ (1,858) $ 6,448 $ 6,802
Deferred tax assets
Unearned premium reserves $ 815 $ 742 Statutory federal income tax rate on income from
operations (390) 21.0 % 1,354 21.0 % 1,428 21.0 %
Unrealized net capital losses 608 —
State income taxes — — 13 0.2 31 0.4
Discount on loss reserves 228 169
Tax credits (55) 3.0 (42) (0.6) (24) (0.4)
Research & development capitalization 219 —
Tax-exempt income (17) 0.9 (18) (0.3) (23) (0.3)
Accrued compensation 128 151
Share-based payments (22) 1.2 (18) (0.3) (30) (0.4)
Net operating loss carryover 97 88
Other (10) 0.5 — — (9) (0.1)
Other postretirement benefits 15 31
Effective income tax rate on income from
Pension 10 —
operations $ (494) 26.6 % $ 1,289 20.0 % $ 1,373 20.2 %
Other assets 95 90
Total deferred tax assets before valuation allowance 2,215 1,271
Note 17 Statutory Financial Information and Dividend Limitations
Valuation allowance (34) (24)
Total deferred tax assets after valuation allowance 2,181 1,247
Allstate’s domestic property and casualty and life, All states require domiciled insurance companies
Deferred tax liabilities accident and health insurance subsidiaries prepare to prepare statutory-basis financial statements in
DAC (1,013) (924) their statutory-basis financial statements in conformity conformity with the NAIC Accounting Practices and
Investments (431) (666) with accounting practices prescribed or permitted by Procedures Manual, subject to any deviations
Intangible assets (147) (219) the insurance department of the applicable state of prescribed or permitted by the applicable insurance
Unrealized net capital gains — (163) domicile. Prescribed statutory accounting practices commissioner or director. Statutory accounting
Pension — (9) include a variety of publications of the NAIC, as well as practices differ from GAAP primarily since they require
state laws, regulations and general administrative charging policy acquisition costs to expense as
Other liabilities (204) (99)
rules. Permitted statutory accounting practices incurred, establishing life insurance reserves based on
Total deferred tax liabilities (1,795) (2,080)
encompass all accounting practices not so prescribed. different actuarial assumptions, and valuing certain
Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) $ 386 $ (833)
investments and establishing deferred taxes on a
different basis.
As of December 31, 2022, the Company has U.S. federal and foreign net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards, some
of which will expire on various dates from 2025 through 2037 as indicated in the table below. In assessing the
realizability of gross deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or
all of the gross deferred tax assets will not be realized. Management considers the scheduled reversal of deferred tax
liabilities, projected future taxable income and tax planning strategies in making this assessment, as well as limitations
on use in future periods. Accordingly, management believes that it is more likely than not that the benefit from certain
NOL carryforwards from recent acquisitions will not be realized. The Company has a valuation allowance of $34 million
on the deferred tax assets related to these NOL carryforwards.
272 2022 Annual Report 273 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Statutory net income (loss) and capital and surplus of Allstate’s domestic insurance subsidiaries benefits with non Medicare-eligible retirees based on The Company has reserved the right to modify or
Net income (loss) Capital and surplus years of service, with the Company’s share being terminate its benefit plans at any time and for any
subject to a 5% limit on future annual medical cost reason.
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021
inflation after retirement. For Medicare-eligible
Amounts by major business type: Obligations and funded status
retirees, the Company provides a fixed Company
Property and casualty insurance $ (1,653) $ 5,975 $ 6,232 $ 14,997 $ 21,186
contribution based on years of service and other The Company calculates benefit obligations based
Life, accident and health insurance 70 96 95 279 322
factors, which is not subject to adjustments for upon generally accepted actuarial methodologies
Life and annuity business sold — 1,642 (81) — —
inflation. using the projected benefit obligation (“PBO”) for
Amount per statutory accounting practices $ (1,583) $ 7,713 $ 6,246 $ 15,276 $ 21,508
pension plans and the accumulated postretirement
In July 2013, the Company amended the plan to
benefit obligation (“APBO”) for other postretirement
Dividend Limitations Under state insurance laws, insurance companies eliminate the life insurance benefits effective January 1,
plans. Pension costs and other postretirement
are required to maintain paid up capital of not less 2014 for current eligible employees and effective
There are no regulatory restrictions that limit the than the minimum capital requirement applicable to January 1, 2016 for eligible retirees who retired after obligations are determined using a December 31
payment of dividends by the Corporation, except those the types of insurance they are authorized to write. 1989. Subject to a court order, the Company paid life measurement date. The benefit obligations represent
generally applicable to corporations incorporated in Insurance companies are also subject to risk-based insurance premiums for certain retiree plaintiffs until the actuarial present value of all benefits attributed to
Delaware. Dividends are payable only out of certain capital (“RBC”) requirements adopted by state their lawsuit seeking to keep their life insurance employee service rendered as of the measurement
components of shareholders’ equity as permitted by insurance regulators. A company’s “authorized control benefits intact was resolved. In September 2020, the date. The PBO is measured using the pension benefit
Delaware law. However, the ability of the Corporation level RBC” is calculated using various factors applied to court entered summary judgment in favor of the formulas and assumptions. A plan’s funded status is
to pay dividends is dependent on business conditions, certain financial balances and activity. Companies that Company and dismissed the action, releasing the calculated as the difference between the benefit
income, cash requirements of the Company, receipt of do not maintain adjusted statutory capital and surplus Company from the order requiring the continued obligation and the fair value of plan assets. The
dividends from AIC and other relevant factors. at a level in excess of the company action level RBC, payment of premiums for certain retirees. In December Company’s funding policy for the pension plans is to
make contributions at a level in accordance with
The payment of shareholder dividends by AIC which is two times authorized control level RBC, are 2021, the Court of Appeals affirmed summary regulations under the Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”)
without the prior approval of the Illinois Department of required to notify and file a RBC remediation plan to judgment in favor of the Company. In October 2022, and generally accepted actuarial principles. The
Insurance (“IL DOI”) is limited to formula amounts the domiciliary regulator and provide a copy of the the U.S. Supreme Court denied the plaintiffs' petition Company’s other postretirement benefit plans are not
based on net income and capital and surplus, remediation plan to state insurance regulators in which for appeal. On December 13, 2022, the trial court funded.
determined in conformity with statutory accounting the insurer is authorized to do business. Company denied the plaintiffs' motions to vacate the summary
practices, as well as the timing and amount of action level RBC is significantly in excess of the judgment decision and seek further discovery. On
dividends paid in the preceding twelve months. AIC minimum capital requirements. Total adjusted January 12, 2023, the plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal
paid dividends of $4.20 billion in 2022. The maximum statutory capital and surplus and authorized control with respect to the December rulings.
amount of dividends AIC will be able to pay without level RBC of AIC were $12.24 billion and $2.96 billion,
Change in projected benefit obligation, plan assets and funded status
prior IL DOI approval at a given point in time during respectively, as of December 31, 2022. Most of the
As of December 31,
2023 is $1.22 billion, less dividends paid during the Corporation’s insurance subsidiaries are subsidiaries of
preceding twelve months measured at that point in or reinsure all of their business to AIC. AIC’s Pension Postretirement
benefits benefits
time. The payment of a dividend in excess of this subsidiaries are included as a component of AIC’s total
amount requires 30 days advance written notice to the statutory capital and surplus. ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2022 2021
Change in projected benefit obligation
IL DOI. The dividend is deemed approved, unless the IL
The amount of restricted net assets, as
DOI disapproves it within the 30-day notice period. Benefit obligation, beginning of year $ 6,500 $ 7,763 $ 284 $ 318
represented by the Corporation’s investment in its
Additionally, any dividend must be paid out of Service cost 101 103 1 1
insurance subsidiaries, was $19.61 billion as of
unassigned surplus excluding unrealized appreciation Interest cost 219 191 10 8
December 31, 2022.
from investments, which for AIC totaled $7.45 billion as Participant contributions — — 16 16
of December 31, 2022, and cannot result in capital and Intercompany transactions Remeasurement of projected benefit obligation (gains) losses (1,382) (309) (62) (16)
surplus being less than the minimum amount required
Notification and approval of intercompany lending Benefits paid (894) (1,242) (42) (43)
by law.
activities is also required by the IL DOI for transactions Translation adjustment and other (33) (6) (4) —
that exceed a level that is based on a formula using Benefit obligation, end of year $ 4,511 $ 6,500 $ 203 $ 284
statutory admitted assets and statutory surplus.
Change in plan assets
Note 18 Benefit Plans
Fair value of plan assets, beginning of year $ 6,525 $ 6,987
Actual return on plan assets (1,189) 764
Pension and other postretirement plans balance formula) under which eligible employees
Employer contribution 24 22
accrue benefits.
Defined benefit pension plans cover most full-time Benefits paid (894) (1,242)
employees, certain part-time employees and The Company also provides a medical coverage Translation adjustment and other (36) (6)
employee-agents. Benefits under the pension plans are subsidy for eligible employees hired before January 1, Fair value of plan assets, end of year $ 4,430 $ 6,525
based upon the employee’s length of service, eligible 2003, including their eligible dependents, when they
Funded status (1) $ (81) $ 25 $ (203) $ (284)
annual compensation and, prior to January 1, 2014, retire and certain life insurance benefits for eligible
either a cash balance or final average pay formula. A retirees (“postretirement benefits”). Effective January 1, Amounts recognized in AOCI
cash balance formula applies to all eligible employees 2021, the Company eliminated the medical coverage Unamortized pension and other postretirement prior service credit $ — $ (28) $ (39) $ (65)
hired after August 1, 2002. Eligible employees hired subsidy for employees who were not eligible to retire
before August 1, 2002 chose between the cash balance as of December 31, 2020. (1) The funded status is recorded within other assets or other liabilities and accrued expenses on the Consolidated Statements of
formula and the final average pay formula. In July 2013, Financial Position.
Qualified employees may become eligible for a
the Company amended its primary plans effective
medical subsidy if they retire in accordance with the
January 1, 2014 to introduce a new cash balance
terms of the applicable plans and are insured under
formula to replace the previous formulas (including the
the Company’s group plans or other approved plans in
final average pay formula and the previous cash
accordance with the plan’s participation requirements.
The Company shares the cost of retiree medical
274 2022 Annual Report 275 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Statutory net income (loss) and capital and surplus of Allstate’s domestic insurance subsidiaries benefits with non Medicare-eligible retirees based on The Company has reserved the right to modify or
Net income (loss) Capital and surplus years of service, with the Company’s share being terminate its benefit plans at any time and for any
subject to a 5% limit on future annual medical cost reason.
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021
inflation after retirement. For Medicare-eligible
Amounts by major business type: Obligations and funded status
retirees, the Company provides a fixed Company
Property and casualty insurance $ (1,653) $ 5,975 $ 6,232 $ 14,997 $ 21,186
contribution based on years of service and other The Company calculates benefit obligations based
Life, accident and health insurance 70 96 95 279 322
factors, which is not subject to adjustments for upon generally accepted actuarial methodologies
Life and annuity business sold — 1,642 (81) — —
inflation. using the projected benefit obligation (“PBO”) for
Amount per statutory accounting practices $ (1,583) $ 7,713 $ 6,246 $ 15,276 $ 21,508
pension plans and the accumulated postretirement
In July 2013, the Company amended the plan to
benefit obligation (“APBO”) for other postretirement
Dividend Limitations Under state insurance laws, insurance companies eliminate the life insurance benefits effective January 1,
plans. Pension costs and other postretirement
are required to maintain paid up capital of not less 2014 for current eligible employees and effective
There are no regulatory restrictions that limit the than the minimum capital requirement applicable to January 1, 2016 for eligible retirees who retired after obligations are determined using a December 31
payment of dividends by the Corporation, except those the types of insurance they are authorized to write. 1989. Subject to a court order, the Company paid life measurement date. The benefit obligations represent
generally applicable to corporations incorporated in Insurance companies are also subject to risk-based insurance premiums for certain retiree plaintiffs until the actuarial present value of all benefits attributed to
Delaware. Dividends are payable only out of certain capital (“RBC”) requirements adopted by state their lawsuit seeking to keep their life insurance employee service rendered as of the measurement
components of shareholders’ equity as permitted by insurance regulators. A company’s “authorized control benefits intact was resolved. In September 2020, the date. The PBO is measured using the pension benefit
Delaware law. However, the ability of the Corporation level RBC” is calculated using various factors applied to court entered summary judgment in favor of the formulas and assumptions. A plan’s funded status is
to pay dividends is dependent on business conditions, certain financial balances and activity. Companies that Company and dismissed the action, releasing the calculated as the difference between the benefit
income, cash requirements of the Company, receipt of do not maintain adjusted statutory capital and surplus Company from the order requiring the continued obligation and the fair value of plan assets. The
dividends from AIC and other relevant factors. at a level in excess of the company action level RBC, payment of premiums for certain retirees. In December Company’s funding policy for the pension plans is to
make contributions at a level in accordance with
The payment of shareholder dividends by AIC which is two times authorized control level RBC, are 2021, the Court of Appeals affirmed summary regulations under the Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”)
without the prior approval of the Illinois Department of required to notify and file a RBC remediation plan to judgment in favor of the Company. In October 2022, and generally accepted actuarial principles. The
Insurance (“IL DOI”) is limited to formula amounts the domiciliary regulator and provide a copy of the the U.S. Supreme Court denied the plaintiffs' petition Company’s other postretirement benefit plans are not
based on net income and capital and surplus, remediation plan to state insurance regulators in which for appeal. On December 13, 2022, the trial court funded.
determined in conformity with statutory accounting the insurer is authorized to do business. Company denied the plaintiffs' motions to vacate the summary
practices, as well as the timing and amount of action level RBC is significantly in excess of the judgment decision and seek further discovery. On
dividends paid in the preceding twelve months. AIC minimum capital requirements. Total adjusted January 12, 2023, the plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal
paid dividends of $4.20 billion in 2022. The maximum statutory capital and surplus and authorized control with respect to the December rulings.
amount of dividends AIC will be able to pay without level RBC of AIC were $12.24 billion and $2.96 billion,
Change in projected benefit obligation, plan assets and funded status
prior IL DOI approval at a given point in time during respectively, as of December 31, 2022. Most of the
As of December 31,
2023 is $1.22 billion, less dividends paid during the Corporation’s insurance subsidiaries are subsidiaries of
preceding twelve months measured at that point in or reinsure all of their business to AIC. AIC’s Pension Postretirement
benefits benefits
time. The payment of a dividend in excess of this subsidiaries are included as a component of AIC’s total
amount requires 30 days advance written notice to the statutory capital and surplus. ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2022 2021
Change in projected benefit obligation
IL DOI. The dividend is deemed approved, unless the IL
The amount of restricted net assets, as
DOI disapproves it within the 30-day notice period. Benefit obligation, beginning of year $ 6,500 $ 7,763 $ 284 $ 318
represented by the Corporation’s investment in its
Additionally, any dividend must be paid out of Service cost 101 103 1 1
insurance subsidiaries, was $19.61 billion as of
unassigned surplus excluding unrealized appreciation Interest cost 219 191 10 8
December 31, 2022.
from investments, which for AIC totaled $7.45 billion as Participant contributions — — 16 16
of December 31, 2022, and cannot result in capital and Intercompany transactions Remeasurement of projected benefit obligation (gains) losses (1,382) (309) (62) (16)
surplus being less than the minimum amount required
Notification and approval of intercompany lending Benefits paid (894) (1,242) (42) (43)
by law.
activities is also required by the IL DOI for transactions Translation adjustment and other (33) (6) (4) —
that exceed a level that is based on a formula using Benefit obligation, end of year $ 4,511 $ 6,500 $ 203 $ 284
statutory admitted assets and statutory surplus.
Change in plan assets
Note 18 Benefit Plans
Fair value of plan assets, beginning of year $ 6,525 $ 6,987
Actual return on plan assets (1,189) 764
Pension and other postretirement plans balance formula) under which eligible employees
Employer contribution 24 22
accrue benefits.
Defined benefit pension plans cover most full-time Benefits paid (894) (1,242)
employees, certain part-time employees and The Company also provides a medical coverage Translation adjustment and other (36) (6)
employee-agents. Benefits under the pension plans are subsidy for eligible employees hired before January 1, Fair value of plan assets, end of year $ 4,430 $ 6,525
based upon the employee’s length of service, eligible 2003, including their eligible dependents, when they
Funded status (1) $ (81) $ 25 $ (203) $ (284)
annual compensation and, prior to January 1, 2014, retire and certain life insurance benefits for eligible
either a cash balance or final average pay formula. A retirees (“postretirement benefits”). Effective January 1, Amounts recognized in AOCI
cash balance formula applies to all eligible employees 2021, the Company eliminated the medical coverage Unamortized pension and other postretirement prior service credit $ — $ (28) $ (39) $ (65)
hired after August 1, 2002. Eligible employees hired subsidy for employees who were not eligible to retire
before August 1, 2002 chose between the cash balance as of December 31, 2020. (1) The funded status is recorded within other assets or other liabilities and accrued expenses on the Consolidated Statements of
formula and the final average pay formula. In July 2013, Financial Position.
Qualified employees may become eligible for a
the Company amended its primary plans effective
medical subsidy if they retire in accordance with the
January 1, 2014 to introduce a new cash balance
terms of the applicable plans and are insured under
formula to replace the previous formulas (including the
the Company’s group plans or other approved plans in
final average pay formula and the previous cash
accordance with the plan’s participation requirements.
The Company shares the cost of retiree medical
274 2022 Annual Report 275 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Changes in items not yet recognized as a component of net cost for pension and other postretirement plans Weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations
Pension Postretirement For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) benefits benefits Pension benefits Postretirement benefits
Items not yet recognized as a component of net cost – December 31, 2021 $ (28) $ (65) 2022 2021 2022 2021
Prior service credit amortized to net cost 28 25 Discount rate 5.64 % 2.93 % 5.58 % 2.86 %
Translation adjustment and other — 1 Cash balance interest credit rate 3.97 1.90 n/a n/a
Items not yet recognized as a component of net cost – December 31, 2022 $ — $ (39)
The weighted average health care cost trend rate consideration, among other factors, including
The prior service credit is recognized as a exclusion of an assumption as to future compensation used in measuring the accumulated postretirement anticipated demographic changes or liquidity
component of net cost for pension and other levels. benefit cost is 6.8% for 2023, gradually declining to requirements that may affect the funding status such
postretirement plans amortized over the average 4.5% in 2035 and remaining at that level thereafter. as the potential impact of lump sum settlements as
The PBO, ABO and fair value of plan assets for the
remaining service period of active employees expected well as existing or expected market conditions. In
Company’s pension plans with an ABO in excess of Pension plan assets In general, the Company’s
to receive benefits. general, the allocation has a lower overall investment
plan assets were $84 million, $83 million and zero pension plan assets are managed in accordance with
risk when a plan is in a stronger funded status position
The accumulated benefit obligation (“ABO”) for all million, respectively, as of December 31, 2022 and $123 investment policies approved by pension investment
since there is less economic incentive to take risk to
defined benefit pension plans was $4.42 billion and million, $121 million and zero , respectively, as of committees. The purpose of the policies is to ensure
increase the expected returns on the plan assets. The
$6.36 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, December 31, 2021. Included in the accrued benefit the plans’ long-term ability to meet benefit obligations
pension plans’ asset exposure within each asset
respectively. The ABO is the actuarial present value of cost of the pension benefits are certain unfunded non- by prudently investing plan assets and Company
category is tracked against widely accepted
all benefits attributed by the pension benefit formula qualified plans with accrued benefit costs of $84 contributions, while taking into consideration
established benchmarks for each asset class with limits
to employee service rendered at the measurement million and $123 million for 2022 and 2021, respectively. regulatory and legal requirements and current market
on variation from the benchmark established in the
date. However, it differs from the PBO due to the conditions. The investment policies are reviewed
investment policy. Pension plan assets are regularly
periodically and specify target plan asset allocation by
Components of net cost (benefit) for pension and other postretirement plans monitored for compliance with these limits and other
asset category. In addition, the policies specify various
For the years ended December 31, risk limits specified in the investment policies.
asset allocation and other risk limits. The target asset
Total pension and allocation takes the plans’ funding status into
Pension benefits Postretirement benefits postretirement benefits
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 Weighted average target asset allocation and actual percentage of plan assets by asset category
Service cost $ 101 $ 103 $ 104 $ 1 $ 1 $ 4 $ 102 $ 104 $ 108 As of December 31, 2022
Interest cost 219 191 210 10 8 11 229 199 221 Target asset allocation (1) Actual percentage of plan assets
Expected return on plan assets (371) (445) (414) — — — (371) (445) (414) Pension plan’s asset category 2022 2022 2021
Amortization of prior service credit (27) (50) (54) (25) (25) (10) (52) (75) (64) Equity securities (2) 22 - 36% 27 % 55 %
Curtailment losses (gains) — — 10 — — (8) — — 2 Fixed income securities 43 - 54 49 30
Costs and expenses (78) (201) (144) (14) (16) (3) (92) (217) (147) Limited partnership interests 1 - 24 21 14
Remeasurement of projected benefit Short-term investments and other — 3 1
obligation (1,382) (309) 813 (62) (16) 22 (1,444) (325) 835 Total without securities lending (3) 100 % 100 %
Remeasurement of plan assets 1,560 (319) (886) — — — 1,560 (319) (886)
(1) The target asset allocation considers risk-based exposure while the actual percentage of plan assets utilizes a financial reporting
Remeasurement (gains) losses 178 (628) (73) (62) (16) 22 116 (644) (51)
view excluding exposure provided through derivatives.
Total net (benefit) cost $ 100 $ (829) $ (217) $ (76) $ (32) $ 19 $ 24 $ (861) $ (198)
(2)The actual percentage of plan assets for equity securities includes 0% and 3% of fixed income mutual funds in 2022 and 2021,
respectively, that are subject to the fixed income securities target allocation.
The service cost component is the actuarial Pension and other postretirement service cost, (3)Securities lending collateral reinvestment of $297 million and $121 million is excluded from the table above in 2022 and 2021,
present value of the benefits attributed by the plans’ interest cost, expected return on plan assets, respectively.
benefit formula to services rendered by the employees amortization of prior service credit and curtailment
during the period. gains and losses are reported in property and casualty The target asset allocation for an asset category asset allocation. The asset allocation mix is reviewed
may be achieved either through direct investment on a periodic basis and rebalanced to bring the
Interest cost is the increase in the PBO in the insurance claims and claims expense, operating costs
holdings, through replication using derivative allocation within the target ranges.
period due to the passage of time at the discount rate. and expenses, net investment income and (if
instruments (e.g., futures or swaps) or net of hedges
applicable) restructuring and related charges on the Outside the target asset allocation, the pension
Interest cost fluctuates as the discount rate Consolidated Statements of Operations. using derivative instruments to reduce exposure to an plans participate in a securities lending program to
changes and is also impacted by the related change in asset category. The net notional amount of derivatives
enhance returns. As of December 31, 2022, fixed
the size of the PBO. Remeasurement gains and losses relate to used for replication and non-hedging strategies is
income securities are lent out and cash collateral is
changes in discount rates, the differences between limited to 115% of total plan assets. Market
The expected return on plan assets is determined actual return on plan assets and the expected long- performance of the different asset categories may, invested in short-term investments.
as the product of the expected long-term rate of return term rate of return on plan assets, and differences from time to time, cause deviation from the target
on plan assets and the fair value of plan assets. between actual plan experience and actuarial
assumptions.
Weighted average assumptions used to determine net pension cost and net postretirement benefit cost
For the years ended December 31,
Pension benefits Postretirement benefits
2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
Discount rate 4.27 % 2.84 % 3.00 % 4.24 % 2.75 % 2.99 %
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 7.06 7.06 7.08 n/a n/a n/a
Cash balance interest credit rate 2.74 2.04 1.65 n/a n/a n/a
276 2022 Annual Report 277 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Changes in items not yet recognized as a component of net cost for pension and other postretirement plans Weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations
Pension Postretirement For the years ended December 31,
($ in millions) benefits benefits Pension benefits Postretirement benefits
Items not yet recognized as a component of net cost – December 31, 2021 $ (28) $ (65) 2022 2021 2022 2021
Prior service credit amortized to net cost 28 25 Discount rate 5.64 % 2.93 % 5.58 % 2.86 %
Translation adjustment and other — 1 Cash balance interest credit rate 3.97 1.90 n/a n/a
Items not yet recognized as a component of net cost – December 31, 2022 $ — $ (39)
The weighted average health care cost trend rate consideration, among other factors, including
The prior service credit is recognized as a exclusion of an assumption as to future compensation used in measuring the accumulated postretirement anticipated demographic changes or liquidity
component of net cost for pension and other levels. benefit cost is 6.8% for 2023, gradually declining to requirements that may affect the funding status such
postretirement plans amortized over the average 4.5% in 2035 and remaining at that level thereafter. as the potential impact of lump sum settlements as
The PBO, ABO and fair value of plan assets for the
remaining service period of active employees expected well as existing or expected market conditions. In
Company’s pension plans with an ABO in excess of Pension plan assets In general, the Company’s
to receive benefits. general, the allocation has a lower overall investment
plan assets were $84 million, $83 million and zero pension plan assets are managed in accordance with
risk when a plan is in a stronger funded status position
The accumulated benefit obligation (“ABO”) for all million, respectively, as of December 31, 2022 and $123 investment policies approved by pension investment
since there is less economic incentive to take risk to
defined benefit pension plans was $4.42 billion and million, $121 million and zero , respectively, as of committees. The purpose of the policies is to ensure
increase the expected returns on the plan assets. The
$6.36 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, December 31, 2021. Included in the accrued benefit the plans’ long-term ability to meet benefit obligations
pension plans’ asset exposure within each asset
respectively. The ABO is the actuarial present value of cost of the pension benefits are certain unfunded non- by prudently investing plan assets and Company
category is tracked against widely accepted
all benefits attributed by the pension benefit formula qualified plans with accrued benefit costs of $84 contributions, while taking into consideration
established benchmarks for each asset class with limits
to employee service rendered at the measurement million and $123 million for 2022 and 2021, respectively. regulatory and legal requirements and current market
on variation from the benchmark established in the
date. However, it differs from the PBO due to the conditions. The investment policies are reviewed
investment policy. Pension plan assets are regularly
periodically and specify target plan asset allocation by
Components of net cost (benefit) for pension and other postretirement plans monitored for compliance with these limits and other
asset category. In addition, the policies specify various
For the years ended December 31, risk limits specified in the investment policies.
asset allocation and other risk limits. The target asset
Total pension and allocation takes the plans’ funding status into
Pension benefits Postretirement benefits postretirement benefits
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020 Weighted average target asset allocation and actual percentage of plan assets by asset category
Service cost $ 101 $ 103 $ 104 $ 1 $ 1 $ 4 $ 102 $ 104 $ 108 As of December 31, 2022
Interest cost 219 191 210 10 8 11 229 199 221 Target asset allocation (1) Actual percentage of plan assets
Expected return on plan assets (371) (445) (414) — — — (371) (445) (414) Pension plan’s asset category 2022 2022 2021
Amortization of prior service credit (27) (50) (54) (25) (25) (10) (52) (75) (64) Equity securities (2) 22 - 36% 27 % 55 %
Curtailment losses (gains) — — 10 — — (8) — — 2 Fixed income securities 43 - 54 49 30
Costs and expenses (78) (201) (144) (14) (16) (3) (92) (217) (147) Limited partnership interests 1 - 24 21 14
Remeasurement of projected benefit Short-term investments and other — 3 1
obligation (1,382) (309) 813 (62) (16) 22 (1,444) (325) 835 Total without securities lending (3) 100 % 100 %
Remeasurement of plan assets 1,560 (319) (886) — — — 1,560 (319) (886)
(1) The target asset allocation considers risk-based exposure while the actual percentage of plan assets utilizes a financial reporting
Remeasurement (gains) losses 178 (628) (73) (62) (16) 22 116 (644) (51)
view excluding exposure provided through derivatives.
Total net (benefit) cost $ 100 $ (829) $ (217) $ (76) $ (32) $ 19 $ 24 $ (861) $ (198)
(2)The actual percentage of plan assets for equity securities includes 0% and 3% of fixed income mutual funds in 2022 and 2021,
respectively, that are subject to the fixed income securities target allocation.
The service cost component is the actuarial Pension and other postretirement service cost, (3)Securities lending collateral reinvestment of $297 million and $121 million is excluded from the table above in 2022 and 2021,
present value of the benefits attributed by the plans’ interest cost, expected return on plan assets, respectively.
benefit formula to services rendered by the employees amortization of prior service credit and curtailment
during the period. gains and losses are reported in property and casualty The target asset allocation for an asset category asset allocation. The asset allocation mix is reviewed
may be achieved either through direct investment on a periodic basis and rebalanced to bring the
Interest cost is the increase in the PBO in the insurance claims and claims expense, operating costs
holdings, through replication using derivative allocation within the target ranges.
period due to the passage of time at the discount rate. and expenses, net investment income and (if
instruments (e.g., futures or swaps) or net of hedges
applicable) restructuring and related charges on the Outside the target asset allocation, the pension
Interest cost fluctuates as the discount rate Consolidated Statements of Operations. using derivative instruments to reduce exposure to an plans participate in a securities lending program to
changes and is also impacted by the related change in asset category. The net notional amount of derivatives
enhance returns. As of December 31, 2022, fixed
the size of the PBO. Remeasurement gains and losses relate to used for replication and non-hedging strategies is
income securities are lent out and cash collateral is
changes in discount rates, the differences between limited to 115% of total plan assets. Market
The expected return on plan assets is determined actual return on plan assets and the expected long- performance of the different asset categories may, invested in short-term investments.
as the product of the expected long-term rate of return term rate of return on plan assets, and differences from time to time, cause deviation from the target
on plan assets and the fair value of plan assets. between actual plan experience and actuarial
assumptions.
Weighted average assumptions used to determine net pension cost and net postretirement benefit cost
For the years ended December 31,
Pension benefits Postretirement benefits
2022 2021 2020 2022 2021 2020
Discount rate 4.27 % 2.84 % 3.00 % 4.24 % 2.75 % 2.99 %
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 7.06 7.06 7.08 n/a n/a n/a
Cash balance interest credit rate 2.74 2.04 1.65 n/a n/a n/a
276 2022 Annual Report 277 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Fair values of pension plan assets as of December 31, 2022 Rollforward of Level 3 plan assets during December 31, 2022
Quoted prices in Significant other Significant Actual return on plan assets:
active markets observable unobservable Relating to Relating to Purchases,
for identical inputs inputs Balance as of Balance as of assets sold assets still sales and Net transfers Balance as of
($ in millions) assets (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) December 31, 2022 December 31, during the held at the settlements, in (out) of December 31,
($ in millions) 2021 period reporting date net Level 3 2022
Equity securities $ 120 $ 25 $ — $ 145
Equity securities $ 2 $ — $ — $ — $ (2) $ —
Fixed income securities:
Total Level 3 plan assets $ 2 $ — $ — $ — $ (2) $ —
Government bonds (1) 496 896 — 1,392
Corporate bonds (2) — 757 — 757
Rollforward of Level 3 plan assets during December 31, 2021
Short-term investments 163 279 — 442
Actual return on plan assets:
Free-standing derivatives:
Relating to Relating to Purchases,
Assets — 1 — 1
Balance as of assets sold assets still sales and Net transfers Balance as of
Liabilities (1) (5) — (6) December 31, during the held at the settlements, in (out) of December 31,
($ in millions) 2020 period reporting date net Level 3 2021
Other assets 1 — — 1
Equity securities $ — $ — $ — $ 2 $ — $ 2
Total plan assets at fair value $ 779 $ 1,953 $ — 2,732
Fixed income securities:
% of total plan assets at fair value 28.5 % 71.5 % — % 100.0 %
Corporate $ 2 $ — $ — $ (2) $ — $ —
Total Level 3 plan assets $ 2 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 2
Investments measured using the net
asset value practical expedient 1,975
Rollforward of Level 3 plan assets during December 31, 2020
Securities lending obligation (3) (296)
Actual return on plan assets:
Derivatives counterparty and cash
collateral netting 2 Relating to Relating to Purchases,
Balance as of assets sold assets still sales and Net transfers Balance as of
Other net plan assets (4) 17
December 31, during the held at the settlements, in (out) of December 31,
Total reported plan assets $ 4,430 ($ in millions) 2019 period reporting date net Level 3 2020
Fixed income securities:
(1) Includes U.S. government and agencies and foreign government bonds.
Corporate $ — $ — $ — $ 2 $ — $ 2
(2)Includes ABS securities.
Total Level 3 plan assets $ — $ — $ — $ 2 $ — $ 2
(3)The securities lending obligation represents the plan’s obligation to return securities lending collateral received under a
securities lending program. The terms of the program allow both the plan and the counterparty the right and ability to
The expected long-term rate of return on plan investment consulting firm that performs asset
redeem/return the securities loaned on short notice. Due to its relatively short-term nature, the outstanding balance of the
assets reflects the average rate of earnings expected allocation and actuarial services for corporate pension
obligation approximates fair value.
on plan assets. The Company’s assumption for the plan sponsors. The above sources support the
(4)Other net plan assets represent cash and cash equivalents, interest and dividends receivable and net receivables related to
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is Company’s weighted average long-term rate of return
settlements of investment transactions, such as purchases and sales.
evaluated annually giving consideration to appropriate on plan assets assumption of 7.06% used for 2022 and
Fair values of pension plan assets as of December 31, 2021 data including, but not limited to, the plan asset an estimate of 7.35% that will be used for 2023. As of
Quoted prices in Significant other Significant allocation, forward-looking expected returns for the the 2022 measurement date, the arithmetic average of
active markets observable unobservable period over which benefits will be paid, historical the annual actual return on plan assets for the most
for identical inputs inputs Balance as of returns on plan assets and other relevant market data. recent 10 and 5 years was 8.4% and 6.9%, respectively.
($ in millions) assets (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) December 31, 2021 Given the long-term forward-looking nature of this
Equity securities $ 311 $ 44 $ 2 $ 357 assumption, the actual returns in any one year do not Cash flows There was no required cash
contribution necessary to satisfy the minimum funding
Fixed income securities: immediately result in a change to the expected long-
requirement under the IRC for the tax qualified pension
Government bonds 58 1,206 — 1,264 term rate of return on plan assets. In consideration of
plan for the year ended December 31, 2022.
Corporate bonds — 696 — 696 the targeted plan asset allocation, the Company
Short-term investments 135 65 — 200 evaluated expected returns using sources including The Company currently plans to contribute $19
Free-standing derivatives: historical average asset class returns from million to its unfunded non-qualified plans and zero to
independent nationally recognized providers of this both its primary and other qualified funded pension
Assets — 4 — 4
type of data blended together using the asset plans in 2023.
Liabilities — (3) — (3)
allocation policy weights for the Company’s pension
Other assets 2 — — 2 plans; asset class return forecasts developed by The Company contributed $26 million and $27
Total plan assets at fair value $ 506 $ 2,012 $ 2 2,520 employees with relevant expertise in such forecasts million to the postretirement benefit plans in 2022 and
% of total plan assets at fair value 20.1 % 79.8 % 0.1 % 100.0 % and who are independent from those charged with 2021, respectively. Contributions by participants were
$16 million and $16 million in 2022 and 2021,
managing the pension plan assets; and expected
respectively.
Investments measured using the net portfolio returns from a proprietary simulation
asset value practical expedient 4,109 methodology of a widely recognized external
Securities lending obligation (121)
Derivatives counterparty and cash
collateral netting (3)
Other net plan assets 20
Total reported plan assets $ 6,525
The fair values of pension plan assets are estimated using the same methodologies and inputs as those used to
determine the fair values for the respective asset category of the Company. These methodologies and inputs are
disclosed in Note 6.
278 2022 Annual Report 279 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Fair values of pension plan assets as of December 31, 2022 Rollforward of Level 3 plan assets during December 31, 2022
Quoted prices in Significant other Significant Actual return on plan assets:
active markets observable unobservable Relating to Relating to Purchases,
for identical inputs inputs Balance as of Balance as of assets sold assets still sales and Net transfers Balance as of
($ in millions) assets (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) December 31, 2022 December 31, during the held at the settlements, in (out) of December 31,
($ in millions) 2021 period reporting date net Level 3 2022
Equity securities $ 120 $ 25 $ — $ 145
Equity securities $ 2 $ — $ — $ — $ (2) $ —
Fixed income securities:
Total Level 3 plan assets $ 2 $ — $ — $ — $ (2) $ —
Government bonds (1) 496 896 — 1,392
Corporate bonds (2) — 757 — 757
Rollforward of Level 3 plan assets during December 31, 2021
Short-term investments 163 279 — 442
Actual return on plan assets:
Free-standing derivatives:
Relating to Relating to Purchases,
Assets — 1 — 1
Balance as of assets sold assets still sales and Net transfers Balance as of
Liabilities (1) (5) — (6) December 31, during the held at the settlements, in (out) of December 31,
($ in millions) 2020 period reporting date net Level 3 2021
Other assets 1 — — 1
Equity securities $ — $ — $ — $ 2 $ — $ 2
Total plan assets at fair value $ 779 $ 1,953 $ — 2,732
Fixed income securities:
% of total plan assets at fair value 28.5 % 71.5 % — % 100.0 %
Corporate $ 2 $ — $ — $ (2) $ — $ —
Total Level 3 plan assets $ 2 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 2
Investments measured using the net
asset value practical expedient 1,975
Rollforward of Level 3 plan assets during December 31, 2020
Securities lending obligation (3) (296)
Actual return on plan assets:
Derivatives counterparty and cash
collateral netting 2 Relating to Relating to Purchases,
Balance as of assets sold assets still sales and Net transfers Balance as of
Other net plan assets (4) 17
December 31, during the held at the settlements, in (out) of December 31,
Total reported plan assets $ 4,430 ($ in millions) 2019 period reporting date net Level 3 2020
Fixed income securities:
(1) Includes U.S. government and agencies and foreign government bonds.
Corporate $ — $ — $ — $ 2 $ — $ 2
(2)Includes ABS securities.
Total Level 3 plan assets $ — $ — $ — $ 2 $ — $ 2
(3)The securities lending obligation represents the plan’s obligation to return securities lending collateral received under a
securities lending program. The terms of the program allow both the plan and the counterparty the right and ability to
The expected long-term rate of return on plan investment consulting firm that performs asset
redeem/return the securities loaned on short notice. Due to its relatively short-term nature, the outstanding balance of the
assets reflects the average rate of earnings expected allocation and actuarial services for corporate pension
obligation approximates fair value.
on plan assets. The Company’s assumption for the plan sponsors. The above sources support the
(4)Other net plan assets represent cash and cash equivalents, interest and dividends receivable and net receivables related to
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is Company’s weighted average long-term rate of return
settlements of investment transactions, such as purchases and sales.
evaluated annually giving consideration to appropriate on plan assets assumption of 7.06% used for 2022 and
Fair values of pension plan assets as of December 31, 2021 data including, but not limited to, the plan asset an estimate of 7.35% that will be used for 2023. As of
Quoted prices in Significant other Significant allocation, forward-looking expected returns for the the 2022 measurement date, the arithmetic average of
active markets observable unobservable period over which benefits will be paid, historical the annual actual return on plan assets for the most
for identical inputs inputs Balance as of returns on plan assets and other relevant market data. recent 10 and 5 years was 8.4% and 6.9%, respectively.
($ in millions) assets (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) December 31, 2021 Given the long-term forward-looking nature of this
Equity securities $ 311 $ 44 $ 2 $ 357 assumption, the actual returns in any one year do not Cash flows There was no required cash
contribution necessary to satisfy the minimum funding
Fixed income securities: immediately result in a change to the expected long-
requirement under the IRC for the tax qualified pension
Government bonds 58 1,206 — 1,264 term rate of return on plan assets. In consideration of
plan for the year ended December 31, 2022.
Corporate bonds — 696 — 696 the targeted plan asset allocation, the Company
Short-term investments 135 65 — 200 evaluated expected returns using sources including The Company currently plans to contribute $19
Free-standing derivatives: historical average asset class returns from million to its unfunded non-qualified plans and zero to
independent nationally recognized providers of this both its primary and other qualified funded pension
Assets — 4 — 4
type of data blended together using the asset plans in 2023.
Liabilities — (3) — (3)
allocation policy weights for the Company’s pension
Other assets 2 — — 2 plans; asset class return forecasts developed by The Company contributed $26 million and $27
Total plan assets at fair value $ 506 $ 2,012 $ 2 2,520 employees with relevant expertise in such forecasts million to the postretirement benefit plans in 2022 and
% of total plan assets at fair value 20.1 % 79.8 % 0.1 % 100.0 % and who are independent from those charged with 2021, respectively. Contributions by participants were
$16 million and $16 million in 2022 and 2021,
managing the pension plan assets; and expected
respectively.
Investments measured using the net portfolio returns from a proprietary simulation
asset value practical expedient 4,109 methodology of a widely recognized external
Securities lending obligation (121)
Derivatives counterparty and cash
collateral netting (3)
Other net plan assets 20
Total reported plan assets $ 6,525
The fair values of pension plan assets are estimated using the same methodologies and inputs as those used to
determine the fair values for the respective asset category of the Company. These methodologies and inputs are
disclosed in Note 6.
278 2022 Annual Report 279 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Estimated future benefit payments expected to be paid in the next 10 years anniversary of the grant date. Vesting is subject to million shares were reserved and remained available
As of December 31, 2022 continued service, except for employees who are for future issuance under these plans. The Company
retirement eligible and in certain other limited uses its treasury shares for these issuances.
Pension Postretirement
($ in millions) benefits benefits circumstances. The fair value of each option grant is estimated on
2023 $ 505 $ 25 Performance stock awards vest into shares of the date of grant using a binomial lattice model. The
2024 485 26 stock based on achieving established company- Company uses historical data to estimate option
2025 470 25 specific performance goals. Performance stock awards exercise and employee termination within the valuation
2026 468 23 granted prior to February 19, 2020 vest into shares of model. In addition, separate groups of employees that
2027 463 21 stock on the day prior to the third anniversary of the have similar historical exercise behavior are considered
grant date. Performance stock awards granted on or separately for valuation purposes. The expected term
2028-2032 1,778 69
after February 19, 2020 vest into shares of stock on the of options granted is derived from the output of the
Total benefit payments $ 4,169 $ 189
third anniversary of the grant date. binomial lattice model and represents the period of
time that options granted are expected to be
Allstate 401(k) Savings Plan The numbers of shares earned upon vesting of the
outstanding. The expected volatility of the price of the
performance stock awards is based on the attainment
Employees of the Company, with the exception of Allstate’s Canadian, SquareTrade and InfoArmor underlying shares is implied based on traded options
of performance goals for each of the performance
those employed by the Company’s international, subsidiaries sponsor defined contribution plans for and historical volatility of the Company’s common
periods, subject to continued service, except for
SquareTrade and InfoArmor subsidiaries, are eligible to their eligible employees. Expense for subsidiary stock. The expected dividends were based on the
employees who are retirement eligible and in certain
become members of the Allstate 401(k) Savings Plan sponsored defined contribution plans was $9 million, current dividend yield of the Company’s stock as of the
other limited circumstances.
(“Allstate Plan”). The Company’s contributions are $9 million and $13 million in 2022, 2021 and 2020, date of the grant. The risk-free rate for periods within
based on the Company’s matching obligation. The respectively. Since 2001, a total of 110.8 million shares of the contractual life of the option is based on the U.S.
Company is responsible for funding its contribution to common stock were authorized to be used for awards Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.
the Allstate Plan. under the plans, subject to adjustment in accordance
with the plans’ terms. As of December 31, 2022, 14.2
The Company’s contribution to the Allstate Plan
was $131 million, $110 million and $103 million in 2022, Option grant assumptions
2021 and 2020, respectively.
2022 2021 2020
Weighted average expected term 5.9 years 7.5 years 6.1 years
Note 19 Equity Incentive Plans
Expected volatility 19.8% - 29.9% 16.5% - 28.8% 16.3% - 37.1%
Weighted average volatility 23.2 % 23.0 % 17.6 %
The Company currently has equity incentive plans Nonvested awards as of December 31, 2022
under which it grants nonqualified stock options, Expected dividends 2.5% - 3.0% 2.0% - 3.0% 1.6% - 2.4%
restricted stock units and performance stock awards Weighted Weighted average expected dividends 2.8 % 3.1 % 1.8 %
to certain employees and directors of the Company. Unrecognized average Risk-free rate 0% - 4.8% 0% - 1.7% 0.1% - 1.8%
($ in millions) compensation vesting period
Equity awards
Nonqualified stock Summary of option activity
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 options $ 16 1.66
For the year ended December 31, 2022
Compensation expense $ 93 $ 120 $ 124 Restricted stock units 47 1.9
Weighted average
Income tax benefits 16 18 18 Performance stock Aggregate intrinsic remaining
Cash received from awards 20 1.55 Number Weighted average value contractual term
exercise of options 130 151 111 Total $ 83 (in 000s) exercise price (in 000s) (years)
Outstanding as of January 1, 2022 9,854 $ 88.84
Tax benefit realized on
options exercised and Options are granted to employees with exercise Granted 1,343 123.04
release of stock prices equal to the closing share price of the Exercised (1,927) 76.28
restrictions 44 37 53
Company’s common stock on the applicable grant Forfeited (303) 116.09
date. Options granted to employees vest ratably over a Expired (14) 109.26
The Company records compensation expense three-year period. Vesting is subject to continued
Outstanding as of December 31, 2022 8,953 95.72 $ 357,082 5.5
related to awards under these plans over the shorter of
service, except for employees who are retirement
the period in which the requisite service is rendered or Outstanding, net of expected forfeitures 8,906 95.60 356,277 5.4
eligible and in certain other limited circumstances.
retirement eligibility is attained. Compensation Outstanding, exercisable (“vested”) 6,472 87.73 309,840 4.5
Options may be exercised once vested and will expire
expense for performance stock awards with no market
no later than ten years after the date of grant.
condition is based on the probable number of awards The weighted average grant date fair value of options granted was $21.16, $15.61 and $18.17 during 2022, 2021 and
expected to vest using the performance level most Restricted stock units for directors vest 2020, respectively. The intrinsic value, which is the difference between the fair value and the exercise price, of options
likely to be achieved at the end of the performance immediately and convert into shares of stock on the exercised was $107 million, $112 million and $119 million during 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
period. Compensation expense for performance stock earlier of the day of the third anniversary of the grant
awards with a market condition is based on the date or the date the director’s service terminates, Changes in restricted stock units
number of awards expected to vest as estimated at unless a deferred period of restriction is elected. For the year ended December 31, 2022
the grant date and does not change if the market
Restricted stock units granted to directors prior to Weighted average
condition is not met. June 1, 2016 convert upon leaving the board. Restricted Number grant date fair
stock units granted to employees prior to February 19, (in 000s) value
2020 vest on the day prior to the third anniversary of Nonvested as of January 1, 2022 1,038 $ 101.98
the grant date. Restricted stock units granted to Granted 447 123.98
employees on or after February 19, 2020 vest ratably Vested (465) 103.53
over a three-year period. Restricted stock units Forfeited (91) 112.74
granted to employees subsequently convert into
Nonvested as of December 31, 2022 929 110.75
shares of stock on the day of the respective
280 2022 Annual Report 281 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Estimated future benefit payments expected to be paid in the next 10 years anniversary of the grant date. Vesting is subject to million shares were reserved and remained available
As of December 31, 2022 continued service, except for employees who are for future issuance under these plans. The Company
retirement eligible and in certain other limited uses its treasury shares for these issuances.
Pension Postretirement
($ in millions) benefits benefits circumstances. The fair value of each option grant is estimated on
2023 $ 505 $ 25 Performance stock awards vest into shares of the date of grant using a binomial lattice model. The
2024 485 26 stock based on achieving established company- Company uses historical data to estimate option
2025 470 25 specific performance goals. Performance stock awards exercise and employee termination within the valuation
2026 468 23 granted prior to February 19, 2020 vest into shares of model. In addition, separate groups of employees that
2027 463 21 stock on the day prior to the third anniversary of the have similar historical exercise behavior are considered
grant date. Performance stock awards granted on or separately for valuation purposes. The expected term
2028-2032 1,778 69
after February 19, 2020 vest into shares of stock on the of options granted is derived from the output of the
Total benefit payments $ 4,169 $ 189
third anniversary of the grant date. binomial lattice model and represents the period of
time that options granted are expected to be
Allstate 401(k) Savings Plan The numbers of shares earned upon vesting of the
outstanding. The expected volatility of the price of the
performance stock awards is based on the attainment
Employees of the Company, with the exception of Allstate’s Canadian, SquareTrade and InfoArmor underlying shares is implied based on traded options
of performance goals for each of the performance
those employed by the Company’s international, subsidiaries sponsor defined contribution plans for and historical volatility of the Company’s common
periods, subject to continued service, except for
SquareTrade and InfoArmor subsidiaries, are eligible to their eligible employees. Expense for subsidiary stock. The expected dividends were based on the
employees who are retirement eligible and in certain
become members of the Allstate 401(k) Savings Plan sponsored defined contribution plans was $9 million, current dividend yield of the Company’s stock as of the
other limited circumstances.
(“Allstate Plan”). The Company’s contributions are $9 million and $13 million in 2022, 2021 and 2020, date of the grant. The risk-free rate for periods within
based on the Company’s matching obligation. The respectively. Since 2001, a total of 110.8 million shares of the contractual life of the option is based on the U.S.
Company is responsible for funding its contribution to common stock were authorized to be used for awards Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.
the Allstate Plan. under the plans, subject to adjustment in accordance
with the plans’ terms. As of December 31, 2022, 14.2
The Company’s contribution to the Allstate Plan
was $131 million, $110 million and $103 million in 2022, Option grant assumptions
2021 and 2020, respectively.
2022 2021 2020
Weighted average expected term 5.9 years 7.5 years 6.1 years
Note 19 Equity Incentive Plans
Expected volatility 19.8% - 29.9% 16.5% - 28.8% 16.3% - 37.1%
Weighted average volatility 23.2 % 23.0 % 17.6 %
The Company currently has equity incentive plans Nonvested awards as of December 31, 2022
under which it grants nonqualified stock options, Expected dividends 2.5% - 3.0% 2.0% - 3.0% 1.6% - 2.4%
restricted stock units and performance stock awards Weighted Weighted average expected dividends 2.8 % 3.1 % 1.8 %
to certain employees and directors of the Company. Unrecognized average Risk-free rate 0% - 4.8% 0% - 1.7% 0.1% - 1.8%
($ in millions) compensation vesting period
Equity awards
Nonqualified stock Summary of option activity
($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020 options $ 16 1.66
For the year ended December 31, 2022
Compensation expense $ 93 $ 120 $ 124 Restricted stock units 47 1.9
Weighted average
Income tax benefits 16 18 18 Performance stock Aggregate intrinsic remaining
Cash received from awards 20 1.55 Number Weighted average value contractual term
exercise of options 130 151 111 Total $ 83 (in 000s) exercise price (in 000s) (years)
Outstanding as of January 1, 2022 9,854 $ 88.84
Tax benefit realized on
options exercised and Options are granted to employees with exercise Granted 1,343 123.04
release of stock prices equal to the closing share price of the Exercised (1,927) 76.28
restrictions 44 37 53
Company’s common stock on the applicable grant Forfeited (303) 116.09
date. Options granted to employees vest ratably over a Expired (14) 109.26
The Company records compensation expense three-year period. Vesting is subject to continued
Outstanding as of December 31, 2022 8,953 95.72 $ 357,082 5.5
related to awards under these plans over the shorter of
service, except for employees who are retirement
the period in which the requisite service is rendered or Outstanding, net of expected forfeitures 8,906 95.60 356,277 5.4
eligible and in certain other limited circumstances.
retirement eligibility is attained. Compensation Outstanding, exercisable (“vested”) 6,472 87.73 309,840 4.5
Options may be exercised once vested and will expire
expense for performance stock awards with no market
no later than ten years after the date of grant.
condition is based on the probable number of awards The weighted average grant date fair value of options granted was $21.16, $15.61 and $18.17 during 2022, 2021 and
expected to vest using the performance level most Restricted stock units for directors vest 2020, respectively. The intrinsic value, which is the difference between the fair value and the exercise price, of options
likely to be achieved at the end of the performance immediately and convert into shares of stock on the exercised was $107 million, $112 million and $119 million during 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
period. Compensation expense for performance stock earlier of the day of the third anniversary of the grant
awards with a market condition is based on the date or the date the director’s service terminates, Changes in restricted stock units
number of awards expected to vest as estimated at unless a deferred period of restriction is elected. For the year ended December 31, 2022
the grant date and does not change if the market
Restricted stock units granted to directors prior to Weighted average
condition is not met. June 1, 2016 convert upon leaving the board. Restricted Number grant date fair
stock units granted to employees prior to February 19, (in 000s) value
2020 vest on the day prior to the third anniversary of Nonvested as of January 1, 2022 1,038 $ 101.98
the grant date. Restricted stock units granted to Granted 447 123.98
employees on or after February 19, 2020 vest ratably Vested (465) 103.53
over a three-year period. Restricted stock units Forfeited (91) 112.74
granted to employees subsequently convert into
Nonvested as of December 31, 2022 929 110.75
shares of stock on the day of the respective
280 2022 Annual Report 281 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
The fair value of restricted stock units is based on the market value of the Company’s stock as of the date of the For the years ended December 31,
grant. The market value in part reflects the payment of future dividends expected. The weighted average grant date ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
fair value of restricted stock units granted was $123.98, $108.99 and $118.61 during 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
Net change in proceeds managed
The total fair value of restricted stock units vested was $59 million, $35 million and $32 million during 2022, 2021 and
Net change in fixed income securities $ (521) $ — $ —
2020, respectively.
Net change in short-term investments (49) (539) 396
Changes in performance stock awards Operating cash flow (used) provided (570) (539) 396
For the year ended December 31, 2022 Net change in cash 3 9 (12)
Weighted average Net change in proceeds managed $ (567) $ (530) $ 384
Number grant date fair
(in 000s) value Cash flows from operating activities
Nonvested as of January 1, 2022 974 $ 105.92 Net change in liabilities
Granted 270 123.08 Liabilities for collateral, beginning of year $ (1,444) $ (914) $ (1,298)
Adjustment for performance achievement 336 92.46 Liabilities for collateral, end of year (2,011) (1,444) (914)
Vested (694) 93.04 Operating cash flow provided (used) $ 567 $ 530 $ (384)
Forfeited (90) 114.02
Nonvested as of December 31, 2022 796 116.36 Note 21 Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
Components of other comprehensive income (loss) on a pre-tax and after-tax basis
The change in performance stock awards primarily volatilities of the Company and the peer companies,
For the years ended December 31,
comprises awards vested in 2022 and the adjustment and expected term assumed to be equal to the
2022 2021 2020
to previously granted performance stock awards for remaining measurement period. The market value in
performance achievement. part reflects the payment of future dividends After- After- After-
expected. ($ in millions) Pre-tax Tax tax Pre-tax Tax tax Pre-tax Tax tax
The fair value of performance stock awards that do
Unrealized net holding gains and losses
not include a market condition is based on the market For the year ended December 31, 2022, the 2022 arising during the period, net of related
value of the Company’s stock as of the date of the performance stock awards with market-based offsets (1) $ (4,470) $ 949 $ (3,521) $ (2,839) $ 601 $ (2,238) $ 2,512 $ (532) $ 1,980
grant. condition assumes a risk-free rate of 1.7%, volatility of Less: reclassification adjustment of net
30.4%, average peer volatility of 34.2% and an expected gains and losses on investments and
Starting with the February 2020 award, the fair derivatives (848) 178 (670) 436 (92) 344 870 (183) 687
term of 2.9 years.
value of performance stock awards includes a
Unrealized net capital gains and losses (3,622) 771 (2,851) (3,275) 693 (2,582) 1,642 (349) 1,293
component with market-based condition measured on The weighted average grant date fair value of
Unrealized foreign currency translation
the grant date using a Monte Carlo simulation model. performance stock awards granted was $123.08, adjustments (190) 40 (150) (10) 2 (8) 66 (14) 52
Market-based condition measures the Company’s total $107.14 and $123.48 during 2022, 2021 and 2020,
Unamortized pension and other
shareholder return (“TSR”) relative to the TSR of peer respectively. The total fair value of performance stock postretirement prior service credit (2) (54) 11 (43) (75) 16 (59) 12 (3) 9
companies, expressed in terms of the Company’s TSR awards vested was $87 million, $70 million and $101 Other comprehensive (loss) income $ (3,866) $ 822 $ (3,044) $ (3,360) $ 711 $ (2,649) $ 1,720 $ (366) $ 1,354
percentile rank among the peer companies, over a million during 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
three-calendar-year performance period. The Monte (1) 2021 includes $2.4 billion of losses related to held for sale investments in connection with the sale of the life and annuity
Carlo simulation model uses a risk-neutral framework The Company recognizes all tax effects related to business.
to model future stock price movements based upon share-based payments at settlement or expiration (2)Represents prior service credits reclassified out of other comprehensive income and amortized into operating costs and
through the income statement.
the risk-free rate of return at the time of grant, expenses.
Note 20 Supplemental Cash Flow Information
Non-cash investing activities include $185 million, $181 million and $156 million for the year ended
$51 million and $55 million related to mergers and December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Non-
exchanges completed with equity and fixed income cash operating activities include $26 million,
securities, bank loans, real estate and limited $98 million and $51 million related to right-of-use
partnerships in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Non- assets obtained in exchange for lease obligations for
cash investing activities include $37 million related to the year ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020,
right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for lease respectively.
obligations for the year ended December 31, 2022.
Liabilities for collateral received in conjunction with
Non-cash financing activities include $65 million, the Company’s securities lending program and OTC
$53 million and $56 million related to the issuance of and cleared derivatives are reported in other liabilities
Allstate common shares for vested equity awards in and accrued expenses or other investments. The
2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. accompanying cash flows are included in cash flows
from operating activities in the Consolidated
Cash flows used in operating activities in the
Statements of Cash Flows along with the activities
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows include cash
resulting from management of the proceeds, as
paid for operating leases related to amounts included
follows:
in the measurement of lease liabilities of $163 million,
282 2022 Annual Report 283 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
The fair value of restricted stock units is based on the market value of the Company’s stock as of the date of the For the years ended December 31,
grant. The market value in part reflects the payment of future dividends expected. The weighted average grant date ($ in millions) 2022 2021 2020
fair value of restricted stock units granted was $123.98, $108.99 and $118.61 during 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
Net change in proceeds managed
The total fair value of restricted stock units vested was $59 million, $35 million and $32 million during 2022, 2021 and
Net change in fixed income securities $ (521) $ — $ —
2020, respectively.
Net change in short-term investments (49) (539) 396
Changes in performance stock awards Operating cash flow (used) provided (570) (539) 396
For the year ended December 31, 2022 Net change in cash 3 9 (12)
Weighted average Net change in proceeds managed $ (567) $ (530) $ 384
Number grant date fair
(in 000s) value Cash flows from operating activities
Nonvested as of January 1, 2022 974 $ 105.92 Net change in liabilities
Granted 270 123.08 Liabilities for collateral, beginning of year $ (1,444) $ (914) $ (1,298)
Adjustment for performance achievement 336 92.46 Liabilities for collateral, end of year (2,011) (1,444) (914)
Vested (694) 93.04 Operating cash flow provided (used) $ 567 $ 530 $ (384)
Forfeited (90) 114.02
Nonvested as of December 31, 2022 796 116.36 Note 21 Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
Components of other comprehensive income (loss) on a pre-tax and after-tax basis
The change in performance stock awards primarily volatilities of the Company and the peer companies,
For the years ended December 31,
comprises awards vested in 2022 and the adjustment and expected term assumed to be equal to the
2022 2021 2020
to previously granted performance stock awards for remaining measurement period. The market value in
performance achievement. part reflects the payment of future dividends After- After- After-
expected. ($ in millions) Pre-tax Tax tax Pre-tax Tax tax Pre-tax Tax tax
The fair value of performance stock awards that do
Unrealized net holding gains and losses
not include a market condition is based on the market For the year ended December 31, 2022, the 2022 arising during the period, net of related
value of the Company’s stock as of the date of the performance stock awards with market-based offsets (1) $ (4,470) $ 949 $ (3,521) $ (2,839) $ 601 $ (2,238) $ 2,512 $ (532) $ 1,980
grant. condition assumes a risk-free rate of 1.7%, volatility of Less: reclassification adjustment of net
30.4%, average peer volatility of 34.2% and an expected gains and losses on investments and
Starting with the February 2020 award, the fair derivatives (848) 178 (670) 436 (92) 344 870 (183) 687
term of 2.9 years.
value of performance stock awards includes a
Unrealized net capital gains and losses (3,622) 771 (2,851) (3,275) 693 (2,582) 1,642 (349) 1,293
component with market-based condition measured on The weighted average grant date fair value of
Unrealized foreign currency translation
the grant date using a Monte Carlo simulation model. performance stock awards granted was $123.08, adjustments (190) 40 (150) (10) 2 (8) 66 (14) 52
Market-based condition measures the Company’s total $107.14 and $123.48 during 2022, 2021 and 2020,
Unamortized pension and other
shareholder return (“TSR”) relative to the TSR of peer respectively. The total fair value of performance stock postretirement prior service credit (2) (54) 11 (43) (75) 16 (59) 12 (3) 9
companies, expressed in terms of the Company’s TSR awards vested was $87 million, $70 million and $101 Other comprehensive (loss) income $ (3,866) $ 822 $ (3,044) $ (3,360) $ 711 $ (2,649) $ 1,720 $ (366) $ 1,354
percentile rank among the peer companies, over a million during 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
three-calendar-year performance period. The Monte (1) 2021 includes $2.4 billion of losses related to held for sale investments in connection with the sale of the life and annuity
Carlo simulation model uses a risk-neutral framework The Company recognizes all tax effects related to business.
to model future stock price movements based upon share-based payments at settlement or expiration (2)Represents prior service credits reclassified out of other comprehensive income and amortized into operating costs and
through the income statement.
the risk-free rate of return at the time of grant, expenses.
Note 20 Supplemental Cash Flow Information
Non-cash investing activities include $185 million, $181 million and $156 million for the year ended
$51 million and $55 million related to mergers and December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Non-
exchanges completed with equity and fixed income cash operating activities include $26 million,
securities, bank loans, real estate and limited $98 million and $51 million related to right-of-use
partnerships in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Non- assets obtained in exchange for lease obligations for
cash investing activities include $37 million related to the year ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020,
right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for lease respectively.
obligations for the year ended December 31, 2022.
Liabilities for collateral received in conjunction with
Non-cash financing activities include $65 million, the Company’s securities lending program and OTC
$53 million and $56 million related to the issuance of and cleared derivatives are reported in other liabilities
Allstate common shares for vested equity awards in and accrued expenses or other investments. The
2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. accompanying cash flows are included in cash flows
from operating activities in the Consolidated
Cash flows used in operating activities in the
Statements of Cash Flows along with the activities
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows include cash
resulting from management of the proceeds, as
paid for operating leases related to amounts included
follows:
in the measurement of lease liabilities of $163 million,
282 2022 Annual Report 283 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 22 Quarterly Results (unaudited) Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of
First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter
The Allstate Corporation
($ in millions, except per share data) 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
3100 Sanders Road
Revenues $ 12,337 $ 12,451 $ 12,220 $ 12,646 $ 13,208 $ 12,480 $ 13,647 $ 13,011
Northbrook, Illinois 60062
Net income (loss) from continuing
operations applicable to common Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting
shareholders 630 2,385 (1,042) 1,399 (694) 183 (310) 1,111
We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Financial Position of The Allstate Corporation and
Income (loss) from discontinued
subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the related Consolidated Statements of Operations,
operations, net of tax — (3,793) — 196 — 325 — (321)
Comprehensive Income (Loss), Shareholders’ Equity, and Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended
Net income (loss) applicable to
December 31, 2022, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "financial statements"). We also have audited
common shareholders $ 630 $ (1,408) $ (1,042) $ 1,595 $ (694) $ 508 $ (310) $ 790
the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in
Earnings per common share Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
applicable to common shareholders
Commission (COSO).
Basic
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
Continuing operations $ 2.27 $ 7.88 $ (3.81) $ 4.68 $ (2.58) $ 0.62 $ (1.17) $ 3.90
position of the Company as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each
Discontinued operations — (12.53) — 0.66 — 1.11 — (1.13)
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
Total $ 2.27 $ (4.65) $ (3.81) $ 5.34 $ (2.58) $ 1.73 $ (1.17) $ 2.77 in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated
Diluted (1)
Framework (2013) issued by COSO.
Continuing operations $ 2.24 $ 7.78 $ (3.81) $ 4.61 $ (2.58) $ 0.62 $ (1.17) $ 3.84
Discontinued operations — (12.38) — 0.65 — 1.09 — (1.11) Basis for Opinions
Total $ 2.24 $ (4.60) $ (3.81) $ 5.26 $ (2.58) $ 1.71 $ (1.17) $ 2.73
The Company’s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal
(1) For periods presented with a net loss from continuing operations applicable to common shareholders, weighted average shares control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
for basic earnings per share is also used for calculating diluted earnings per share because all dilutive potential common shares Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and an opinion on the Company’s internal
are anti-dilutive and are therefore excluded from the calculation. control over financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the
Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities
and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material
misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures to respond to
those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. Our audit of internal
control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness
of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
or procedures may deteriorate.
284 2022 Annual Report 285 www.allstate.comNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 22 Quarterly Results (unaudited) Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of
First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter
The Allstate Corporation
($ in millions, except per share data) 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
3100 Sanders Road
Revenues $ 12,337 $ 12,451 $ 12,220 $ 12,646 $ 13,208 $ 12,480 $ 13,647 $ 13,011
Northbrook, Illinois 60062
Net income (loss) from continuing
operations applicable to common Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting
shareholders 630 2,385 (1,042) 1,399 (694) 183 (310) 1,111
We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Financial Position of The Allstate Corporation and
Income (loss) from discontinued
subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the related Consolidated Statements of Operations,
operations, net of tax — (3,793) — 196 — 325 — (321)
Comprehensive Income (Loss), Shareholders’ Equity, and Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended
Net income (loss) applicable to
December 31, 2022, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "financial statements"). We also have audited
common shareholders $ 630 $ (1,408) $ (1,042) $ 1,595 $ (694) $ 508 $ (310) $ 790
the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in
Earnings per common share Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
applicable to common shareholders
Commission (COSO).
Basic
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
Continuing operations $ 2.27 $ 7.88 $ (3.81) $ 4.68 $ (2.58) $ 0.62 $ (1.17) $ 3.90
position of the Company as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each
Discontinued operations — (12.53) — 0.66 — 1.11 — (1.13)
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
Total $ 2.27 $ (4.65) $ (3.81) $ 5.34 $ (2.58) $ 1.73 $ (1.17) $ 2.77 in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated
Diluted (1)
Framework (2013) issued by COSO.
Continuing operations $ 2.24 $ 7.78 $ (3.81) $ 4.61 $ (2.58) $ 0.62 $ (1.17) $ 3.84
Discontinued operations — (12.38) — 0.65 — 1.09 — (1.11) Basis for Opinions
Total $ 2.24 $ (4.60) $ (3.81) $ 5.26 $ (2.58) $ 1.71 $ (1.17) $ 2.73
The Company’s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal
(1) For periods presented with a net loss from continuing operations applicable to common shareholders, weighted average shares control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
for basic earnings per share is also used for calculating diluted earnings per share because all dilutive potential common shares Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and an opinion on the Company’s internal
are anti-dilutive and are therefore excluded from the calculation. control over financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the
Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities
and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material
misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures to respond to
those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. Our audit of internal
control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness
of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
or procedures may deteriorate.
284 2022 Annual Report 285 www.allstate.comCritical Audit Matter
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the financial
statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relates to
accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involves our especially challenging,
subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of a critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion
on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below,
providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.
Reserve for Property and Casualty Insurance Claims and Claims Expense - Refer to Notes 2 and 9 to the Financial
Statements
Critical Audit Matter Description
As of December 31, 2022, the reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense was
$37.5 billion. The Company establishes reserves for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense on
reported and unreported claims of insured losses. Using established industry and actuarial best practices as well as the
Company’s historical claims experience, the reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense is
estimated based on (i) claims reported, (ii) claims incurred but not reported, and (iii) projections of claim payments to
be made in the future.
Given the subjectivity of estimating claims incurred but not reported and projections of claim payments to be
made in the future, particularly those with payout requirements over a longer period of time, the related audit effort in
evaluating the reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense required a high degree of auditor
judgment and an increased extent of effort, including involvement of our actuarial specialists.
How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit
Our principal audit procedures related to the reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and claims
expense included the following:
• We tested the effectiveness of controls related to the reserve for property and casualty insurance claims and
claims expense, including those over the Company’s estimates and projections.
• We evaluated the methods and assumptions used by the Company to estimate the reserve for property and
casualty insurance claims and claims expense by:
– Testing the underlying data that served as the basis for the actuarial analysis, including historical
claims, to test that the inputs to the actuarial estimate were complete and accurate.
– Comparing prior year estimates of expected incurred losses to actual experience during the current
year to identify potential bias in the determination of the reserve for property and casualty insurance
claims and claims expense.
• With the assistance of our actuarial specialists, we developed independent estimates for the reserve for
property and casualty insurance claims and claims expense, particularly related to those with payout
requirements over a longer period of time, utilizing loss data and industry claim development factors, and
compared our estimates to management’s estimates and assessed the consistency of management’s
approach.
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chicago, Illinois
February 16, 2023
We have served as the Company's auditor since 1992.
286 2022 Annual ReportInvestor Information
Corporate Headquarters/ Home Office Allstate 401(k) Savings Plan Media Inquiries
The Allstate Corporation For information about the Allstate 401(k) Allstate Media Relations
3100 Sanders Road Savings Plan, call the Allstate Benefits 3100 Sanders Road
Northbrook, IL 60062 Center at (888) 255-7772 Northbrook, IL 60062
(800) 574-3553 (847) 402-5600
www.allstate.com Investor Relations
Security analysts, portfolio managers and Form 10-K, Other Reports
Annual Meeting representatives of financial institutions Shareholders may receive without charge a
Shareholders of record are invited seeking information about the company copy of The Allstate Corporation Form 10-K
to attend the annual meeting of The should contact: annual report (filed with the U.S. Securities
Allstate Corporation on Tuesday, and Exchange Commission) and other
May 23, 2023, 11:00 a.m. The Investor Relations public financial information for the year
company will be hosting the meeting The Allstate Corporation ended December 31, 2022, by contacting
live via the Internet. To attend the 3100 Sanders Road, invrel@allstate.com.
virtual meeting please visit www. Northbrook, IL 60062
virtualshareholdermeeting.com/ALL2023. (800) 416-8803 The Allstate Corporation’s Annual Report
invrel@allstate.com is available online at:
Holders of common stock of record at https://www.allstateinvestors.com/
the close of business on March 24, 2023 Communications to the financials/sec-filings
are entitled to vote during the meeting. Board of Directors
A notice of meeting, proxy statement Shareholders or other interested parties Stock Exchange Listing
and proxy card and/or voting instructions who wish to communicate to the Board The Allstate Corporation common stock
were provided to shareholders with this of Directors may do so by mail or email is listed on the New York Stock Exchange
annual report. as follows. Please let us know if you are under the trading symbol “ALL.” Common
a shareholder. stock is also listed on the Chicago Stock
Shareholder Services/Transfer Agent Exchange. As of January 31, 2023, there
For information or assistance regarding BY EMAIL: were 59,597 holders of record of The
individual stock records, dividend directors@allstate.com Allstate Corporation’s common stock.
reinvestment, dividend checks, 1099DIV
and 1099B tax forms, direct deposit of BY MAIL: Independent Registered Public
dividend payments, or stock certificates, The Allstate Corporation Accounting Firm
contact EQ Shareowner Services, in any Nominating, Governance & Deloitte & Touche LLP 111 South Wacker
of the following ways: Social Responsibility Committee Drive Chicago, IL 60606-4301
c/o General Counsel
BY TELEPHONE: 3100 Sanders Road Online Information
(800) 355-5191 within the U.S. or Northbrook, IL 60062 You can access financial and other
(651) 450-4064 outside the U.S. information about Allstate on our
Code of Global Business Conduct website, www.allstateinvestors.com,
BY MAIL: Allstate’s Global Code of Business Conduct including executive speeches, investor
EQ Shareowner Services is available on the Corporate Governance conference calls and quarterly investor
P.O. Box 64854 section of www.allstateinvestors.com. information. The information contained in
St. Paul, MN 55164-0854 any website or report referenced in this
Corporate Responsibility
proxy statement is not incorporated by
BY CERTIFIED/OVERNIGHT MAIL: Information on Allstate’s social reference in, and does not form a part of,
EQ Shareowner Services responsibility programs is available at this proxy statement.
allstatesustainability.com.
1110 Centre Pointe Curve, Suite 101
Mendota Heights, MN 55120-4100
ON THE INTERNET—
account information:
shareowneronline.com
Printed on recycled paper. Soy ink used throughout.
moc.maetelygra.www
yb
deraperPThe Allstate Corporation
Notice of 2023 Annual Meeting,
Proxy Statement and
2022 Annual Report
The Allstate Corporation
2775 Sanders Road
Northbrook, IL 60062–6127